# People v. Johnson CA2/8

**Court:** Calctapp

**Docket Number:** B340032

**Decision Date:** 2026-05-21

---

Filed 5/21/26 P. v. Johnson CA2/8
   NOT TO BE PUBLISHED IN THE OFFICIAL REPORTS

California Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions
not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). This opinion
has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115.


IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

                         SECOND APPELLATE DISTRICT

                                      DIVISION EIGHT

 THE PEOPLE,                                                 B340032

           Plaintiff and Respondent,                         Los Angeles County
                                                             Super. Ct. No. XNOMA070386-01
           v.

 JAMES EARMER JOHNSON,

           Defendant and Appellant.


      APPEAL from a judgment of the Superior Court of Los
Angeles County, Charles A. Chung, Judge. Reversed with
directions.

      Ava R. Stralla, under appointment by the Court of Appeal,
for Defendant and Appellant.

      Rob Bonta, Attorney General, Charles C. Ragland, Chief
Assistant Attorney General, Susan Sullivan Pithey, Assistant
Attorney General, Noah P. Hill and Thomas C. Hsieh, Deputy
Attorneys General, for Plaintiff and Respondent.
                   _________________________
      In the direct appeal from James Earmer Johnson’s
judgment of conviction, we reversed his sentence and remanded
the matter to the trial court for resentencing. On remand,
Johnson asked the court for a full resentencing hearing, that is, a
reconsideration of every part of the sentence previously imposed.
The trial court refused to conduct a full resentencing hearing,
limiting itself to the single issue we had identified as error. Both
parties agree the trial court erred in not conducting a full
resentencing hearing. They also agree the abstract of judgment
must be corrected. We agree as well and reverse with directions.
        FACTS AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
       A jury convicted Johnson of criminal threats; kidnapping of
a victim under 14 years of age; pandering by encouraging;
possession of a firearm by a felon; forcible rape by a foreign object
acting in concert; sodomy by acting in concert with force; and oral
copulation. The jury also found true that Johnson personally
used a firearm in commission of several of the offenses; the
sexual offenses were committed during the course of a
kidnapping; the movement of the victim substantially increased
the risk of harm to the victim; and Johnson used a deadly or
dangerous weapon during the commission of the sexual offenses.
       The trial court sentenced Johnson to 51 years plus a
consecutive indeterminate term of 75 years to life. The sentence
consisted of three consecutive terms of 25 years to life on the
rape, oral copulation and sodomy counts; three upper 10-year
enhancements for the firearm use findings as to those counts; and
the upper term of 11 years on the kidnapping count plus 10 years
for the personal firearm use finding. Punishment on the
remaining counts and enhancements was imposed but stayed.




                                 2
       Johnson timely appealed the judgment of conviction. In
our September 1, 2021, opinion, we remanded the matter to the
trial court with the following directions: “We order appellant
Johnson’s conviction for kidnapping reduced to the lesser
included offense of felony false imprisonment. We remand this
matter as to appellant Johnson to permit the trial court to
resentence him on the false imprisonment count and to clarify or
reconsider its rationale for imposing consecutive sentences on
him for the rape and sodomy convictions. We affirm the
judgment of conviction as to appellant Johnson in all other
respects.” (People v. Johnson (Sept. 1, 2021, B301568) [nonpub.
opn.].)
       The hearing on remand did not occur until July 19, 2024.
By then several new ameliorative sentencing statutes had been
enacted into law. On remand, Johnson filed a brief in support of
full resentencing along with a social history mitigation report.
Specifically, among other things, Johnson cited Senate Bill
No. 567 which prohibits imposition of an upper term based on
aggravating factors not found true beyond a reasonable doubt by
a jury or at a court trial or which were not admitted by the
defendant. Johnson also cited Senate Bill No. 81 which provides
that an enhancement shall be dismissed where evidence of
certain specified mitigating circumstances has been presented.
Johnson asked the trial court to conduct a full resentencing
hearing to consider whether and how this new legislation applied
to him. The People opposed full resentencing.
       On remand, when Johnson asked the court to consider
changes to the entire sentence, the trial court, noting the brutal
nature of the offenses of conviction, stated: “I’ll note that the
appellate court sent the matter back on remittitur with very




                                3
specific instructions limited to very specific counts. The court
intends only to deal with the specific instructions that the
appellate court provided. [¶] I do want to say, though, that even if
I did have the discretion to engage in a full resentencing, the
court [declines] to exercise that discretion. I find no compelling
factors to warrant such a full resentencing.” “This case involved
extreme cruelty. It was a brutal, brutal case where two men,
acting in concert, brutally raped a woman who was especially
vulnerable, and that action occurred over the course of a
prolonged period of time. There was extensive planning and,
again, extreme violence.”
       When Johnson objected to the denial of a full resentencing,
the court replied: “[A] bifurcated trial would be needed on factors
in aggravation. Again, the appellate court sent the matter back
on very specific counts with very specific instructions.” “If the
defense wants, you can seek further remediation under other
procedural methods.” The trial court denied full sentencing.
Johnson timely appealed.
                          DISCUSSION
I.    Applicable Law and Standard of Review
       We consider a trial court’s sentencing decisions under an
abuse of discretion standard. (People v. Moseley (2024)
105 Cal.App.5th 870, 874.) A court abuses its discretion when it
makes an arbitrary or capricious decision by applying the wrong
legal standard or bases its decision on express or implied factual
findings not supported by substantial evidence. (People v.
Qualkinbush (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 879, 887.)




                                 4
II.   Analysis
       The parties agree, as do we, that Johnson is entitled to a
full resentencing hearing. The California Supreme Court has
held “when part of a sentence is stricken on review, on remand
for resentencing ‘a full resentencing as to all counts is
appropriate, so the trial court can exercise its sentencing
discretion in light of the changed circumstances.’ ” (People v.
Buycks (2018) 5 Cal.5th 857, 893; People v. Walker (2021)
67 Cal.App.5th 198, 204.) That the appellate court gave specific
directions on remand does not preclude a full resentencing
hearing as required by Buycks. (People v. Padilla (2022)
13 Cal.5th 152, 163 [once a court has determined that a
defendant is entitled to resentencing, the result is vacatur of the
original sentence whereupon the trial court may impose any
appropriate sentence.].) Because the judgment is no longer final,
new statutes imposing new lighter penalties are “deemed to be
sufficient” to apply upon resentencing. (Id. at p. 160.)
       The parties also agree, as do we, that the trial court erred
in imposing the upper term for the firearm enhancement under
Penal Code section 12022.5 when it rejected a request for a
bifurcated trial on the aggravating factors. The aggravating
factors the court recited, without further explanation, were that
the victim was particularly vulnerable and the crime involved
extreme cruelty and planning.
       Senate Bill No. 567 (2021–2022 Reg. Sess.) provides that
where, as here, a statute specifies three possible terms, the
presumptive sentence is the middle term unless there are
aggravating circumstances justifying imposition of the high term.
The aggravating circumstance must be stipulated to by the
defendant or found true beyond a reasonable doubt by a jury or, if




                                5
jury is waived, by the court in a court trial. The trial court
acknowledged that a bifurcated trial would be necessary to find
the aggravating circumstances true. Nevertheless it relied on our
“very specific instructions” in declining to hold such a trial.
Where, as here, the record reflects no jury finding, no waiver
thereof, and no admission by Johnson of the aggravating
circumstances, the trial court’s reliance on unproven aggravating
factors to impose an upper term sentence violates the Sixth
Amendment. (See People v. Lynch (2024) 16 Cal.5th 730, 767–
768-769 (Lynch); but see People v. Eaton (Mar. 14, 2025,
C096853) [nonpub. opn.], review granted, May 14, 2025, S298803
[the question presented is whether a trial court may reimpose a
previously imposed upper term where the facts underlying one or
more aggravating circumstances have not been stipulated to or
found true by a jury or court].)
       The error is harmless only if a reviewing court can conclude
beyond a reasonable doubt that a jury would have found true all
the aggravating facts relied upon by the sentencing court to
justify the upper term. (Lynch, supra, 16 Cal.5th at pp. 761,
775.) On this record we agree with the parties that we cannot
draw such a conclusion. The court took a waiver of jury trial on
the issue of prior strike convictions only and then declined to
count the strike as a strike. As the Lynch court stated: “Many of
the aggravating circumstances described in the [Rules of Court]
require an imprecise quantitative or comparative evaluation of
the facts.” (Id. at pp. 775–776.)
       Johnson also contends the trial court erred in refusing to
dismiss all enhancements beyond a single enhancement as
provided by Penal Code section 1385 and it erred in failing to give
great weight to any mitigating circumstances as discussed in




                                6
People v. Walker (2024) 16 Cal.5th 1024. Because the court is
directed to conduct a full resentencing hearing on all counts and
enhancements found true, Johnson may raise these issues on
remand.
       Finally, we direct the trial court to issue a corrected
abstract of judgment. Johnson was convicted of the offense of
false imprisonment, a violation of Penal Code section 237, not
kidnapping, a violation of Penal Code section 207.
                          DISPOSITION
     The judgment is reversed. The trial court is directed to
conduct a full resentencing hearing and to correct the abstract of
judgment to reflect the conviction of false imprisonment, not
kidnapping.

      NOT TO BE PUBLISHED IN THE OFFICIAL REPORTS




                                          STRATTON, P. J.

We concur:




             WILEY, J.




             SCHERB, J.




                                7