# Beale v. Dept. of Motor Vehicles

**Decision Date:** 2026-05-21

---

Filed 5/21/26
                            CERTIFIED FOR PUBLICATION
                IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

                              SIXTH APPELLATE DISTRICT


 DAVID KEITH BEALE,                                 H052612
                                                   (Santa Clara County
          Plaintiff and Appellant,                  Super. Ct. No. 23CV418048)

          v.

 DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR
 VEHICLES,

          Defendant and Respondent.


        This is an appeal from a denial of a petition for writ of mandate against the
California Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) after it suspended appellant David
Keith Beale’s driver’s license for riding an electric bicycle under the influence of alcohol
and refusing to submit to a blood alcohol test. Beale argues that an electric bicycle is not
a “motor vehicle” under Vehicle Code section 13353 and that there was therefore no basis
for suspending his license. We agree with Beale that the statutory scheme does not
authorize the suspension of an electric bicycle rider’s driver’s license, even if the rider
refuses a police officer’s request to take a chemical test. On this basis, we reverse.
                                     I.    BACKGROUND
A.      The Incident
        On August 16, 2022, at approximately 7:30 p.m., San Jose Police Officer Nickolas
Corini responded to a report of a man on a “motorized bicycle” who had hit a curb and
injured his head. Officer Corini located the man on his “motorized/electric bicycle” at
the scene, and the man identified himself as Beale. Corini smelled alcohol on Beale’s
breath and saw that he had bloodshot eyes. Corini proceeded to ask Beale a series of
“intoxication questions.” After initially agreeing to perform field sobriety exercises,
Beale then refused to do several of them because of balance issues. Beale also refused to
consent to a preliminary alcohol screening test.
       Corini determined that Beale was operating a motor vehicle under the influence of
an alcoholic beverage in violation of Vehicle Code section 23152, subdivision (a), and
placed him in handcuffs in the back of the patrol vehicle. 1 Corini asked if Beale would
be willing to “provide a blood or breath sample per DMV’s Implied Consent,” and Beale
refused. At 12:20 a.m. on August 17, Officer Corini procured a blood sample from Beale
pursuant to a judicial warrant. The test showed a blood alcohol level of 0.113 percent.
Beale received a suspension/revocation order and temporary driver’s license with a
notification that he had 10 days to request a hearing to show that the suspension of his
license was not justified.
B.     The APS Hearings
       On December 9, 2022, the DMV held an initial “administrative per se” (APS)
hearing under section 13353, at which the hearing officer and Beale’s attorney discussed
whether Beale’s bicycle was an “electric bicycle” or a “motorized bicycle.” The hearing
officer ultimately continued the hearing so that Beale’s counsel could obtain further
information to show which Vehicle Code sections should apply, and for the parties to
determine whether “the hearing [should] even proceed at that point” or whether the
bicycle might “be exempt.”
       The DMV held the continued APS hearing on May 18, 2023 before a different
hearing officer. At the hearing, Beale’s attorney argued that Beale had an electric
bicycle, which is not a motor vehicle and therefore not subject to the Vehicle Code
provisions for the suspension of a driver’s license. Beale’s attorney submitted a

       1 Subsequent undesignated statutory references are to the Vehicle Code. Section
23152, subdivision (a) states, “It is unlawful for a person who is under the influence of
any alcoholic beverage to drive a vehicle.”


                                             2
declaration from the deputy district attorney in the corresponding criminal case, in which
the prosecutor sought to amend the charge against Beale from a violation of section
23152 to a violation of section 21200.5 (riding a bicycle while under the influence). The
prosecutor’s declaration asserted that an “electric bike” does not meet the statutory
definition of a “motor vehicle” under section 23152. 2
       Beale presented an expert witness, Douglas Schwartz, who stated that he runs
“probably the largest electric bike store in Northern California.” Schwartz testified that
an electric bicycle is different from a “moped motorized bicycle” because an electric
bicycle does not require any type of licensing, has an upper speed limit of 28 miles an
hour, and is required to have pedals. He also testified that electric bicycles are governed
by the Consumer Product Safety Commission rather than the Department of
Transportation, in contrast to mopeds. Schwartz looked at photographs of Beale’s
bicycle and identified it as a “Class 2” electric bicycle.
       During the hearing, the hearing officer asked several clarifying questions of
Schwartz regarding the difference between an electric bicycle and a moped, as well as the
difference between an electric bicycle and a regular bicycle. The hearing officer also
asked about the location of the battery and the lack of any requirement for a license or
registration to ride an electric bicycle.
       On May 23, 2023, the DMV issued its decision. The hearing officer found that
“Officer Corini had reasonable cause to believe that [Beale] was driving a motor vehicle
under the influence of alcohol.” The hearing officer further concluded that Beale was
“lawfully arrested for a violation of Vehicle Code Section 23152, 23153, or 23140.” The
hearing officer made the additional determinations that “[a]n electric bicycle that can
move itself is a bicycle, but it is also a motor vehicle,” and that “a bicycle rider has


       2 Notwithstanding this concession, section 23152 uses the term “vehicle” rather
than “motor vehicle,” as quoted in the previous footnote.


                                               3
essentially the same rights and responsibilities as the driver of any vehicle,” citing
sections 21200, subdivision (a)(1), 21200.5, and 23612. Based on the totality of the
evidence, the hearing officer concluded, “[T]he department’s administrative action is
deemed warranted.” The hearing officer upheld the suspension of Beale’s driver’s
license for the period of June 2, 2023 through June 1, 2024. 3
C.     The Trial Court Proceedings
       On June 26, 2023, Beale filed a petition for writ of mandate in the Santa Clara
County Superior Court. He argued that he rode a bicycle, not a motor vehicle, and was
therefore not lawfully arrested for a violation of section 23152 or subject to an APS
suspension of his driver’s license. On November 3, 2023, Beale filed a supplemental
memorandum of points and authorities in which he argued that the APS hearing also
violated his due process rights because it combined the advocacy and adjudicatory roles
of a prosecutor and decision maker into a single DMV employee. The DMV submitted a
written opposition to the petition, arguing that Beale had waived any due process
challenge because he never raised the issue during the APS hearings, that the hearing
officer acted as a factfinder and not as an advocate, and that Beale did not demonstrate
any prejudice in any event. As for the license suspension, the DMV argued that whether
an electric bicycle is a motor vehicle is irrelevant because “bicyclists are subject to the
same rules as drivers of vehicles.” The DMV further argued that even if it were
necessary to determine whether an electric bicycle is a motor vehicle under section
13353, the court should find that the class 2 bicycle operated by Beale was more like a




       3 Although that suspension period has now passed, this case is not moot: “Unless
this suspension is rescinded, [appellant] would face a more severe penalty should he be
found to have failed to submit to or complete a chemical test on a subsequent occasion.
(Veh. Code, § 13353.)” (Fitzpatrick v. Department of Motor Vehicles (1993) 13
Cal.App.4th 1771, 1778, fn. 3.)


                                              4
moped than a conventional bicycle, with “motor vehicle” defined broadly to achieve
section 13353’s purpose of making the roads safer by removing reckless drivers.
       Following additional briefs from the parties, the trial court issued its decision on
August 20, 2024. The court found that Beale had waived the due process challenge by
failing to raise it below. Nevertheless, the court also went on to find that the due process
challenge was “unpersuasive” in any event, as the hearing officer did not engage in any
acts of advocacy and had asked legitimate and neutral questions to develop Schwartz’s
expert testimony. The trial court further found that the APS decision had fairly
characterized the facts and the law.
       With regard to the merits of the APS decision, the trial court stated: “Whether an
electric bicycle is a motor vehicle is wholly irrelevant to the resolution of this case.
Instead, the Court only needs to confirm that Beale is a bicyclist—regardless of the
bicycle type he uses. If so, he is subject to the same rules as a driver of a vehicle.” The
court observed that section 21200 provides that bicyclists have the same rights and
burdens as drivers of vehicles, including the application of statutes concerning driving
under the influence of alcohol, such as sections 13353, 23152, and 23612. Even if
section 21200 were not clear, the court would not “narrow its scope” because “[t]he
public faces the same type of dangers from reckless driving under the influence of
alcohol regardless of the vehicle type,” and “[t]here is a real threat of injury from reckless
bicycles, especially electric bicycles ….” The court also asserted that it would “focus on
the use of the word ‘vehicle’ in Vehicle Code section 13353, rather than the more
restrictive term ‘motor vehicle,’ and hold that an electric bicycle is a vehicle within the
meaning of the statute.” The trial court concluded there was “sufficient evidence in the
record to support the suspension of Beale’s license.” It denied the petition.
       Beale timely appealed.




                                               5
                                     II.    DISCUSSION
A.     The Standard of Review
       “ ‘In ruling on an application for a writ of mandate following an order of
suspension or revocation, a trial court is required to determine, based on its independent
judgment, “ ‘whether the weight of the evidence supported the administrative
decision.’ ” ’ [Citation.]” Manriquez v. Gourley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1227, 1233.
“On appeal, this court ordinarily reviews the record to determine whether the trial court’s
findings are supported by substantial evidence. [Citation.] But where, as here, the
determinative question is one of statutory or regulatory interpretation, an issue of law, we
may exercise our independent judgment. [Citations.]” (Ibid.)
B.     The Refusal Statute and the Resulting Administrative Penalties
       At the heart of this case is an administrative procedure—here, an “APS hearing”
by the DMV—that arises from the failure to submit voluntarily to a blood alcohol test.
Under Vehicle Code section 23612, “[a] person who drives a motor vehicle is deemed to
have given his or her consent to chemical testing of his or her blood or breath for the
purpose of determining the alcoholic content of his or her blood, if lawfully arrested for
an offense allegedly committed in violation of Section 23140, 23152, or 23153.”
(§ 23612, subd. (a)(1)(A).) Section 23612 goes on to state that the arrestee “shall be
told” that a failure or refusal to submit to a chemical test of blood or breath (or urine) can
result in various penalties, including the “administrative suspension” or “administrative
revocation” of “the person’s privilege to operate a motor vehicle.” (§ 23612, subd.
(a)(1)(D).)
       Vehicle Code section 13353 et seq. describes the procedure for the DMV to follow
in imposing administrative penalties for the refusal, including suspension or revocation of
“the person’s privilege to operate a motor vehicle” for various periods of time. That
procedure includes holding an APS hearing at the request of the licensee. (§§ 13353,
subd. (e); 13558.) For a first-time violation of sections 23140, 23152, and 23153, a

                                              6
person’s refusal to submit to chemical testing under section 23612 subjects them to a
driver’s license suspension “for a period of one year.” (§ 13353, subd. (a)(1).) “An
essential condition to the application of Vehicle Code section 13353 is that the suspect be
lawfully arrested on probable cause to believe that he was driving a motor vehicle under
the influence of an alcoholic beverage.” (Mueller v. Department of Motor Vehicles
(1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 681, 684.)
C.      Whether An Electric Bicycle is a “Motor Vehicle”
        Because section 13353, subdivision (a) expressly requires the arresting officer to
have “had reasonable cause to believe the person had been driving a motor vehicle in
violation of Section 23140, 23152, or 23153,” Beale maintains—just as he did in the APS
hearing and in the trial court—that an electric bicycle is not a “motor vehicle.” Our
determination of this issue relies on an examination of the statutory scheme governing
bicycles, vehicles, licenses, and riding or driving under the influence. For such statutory
interpretation, we are guided by familiar principles.
        “Our fundamental task is to ascertain the Legislature’s intent and effectuate the
law’s purpose, giving the statutory language its plain and commonsense meaning.
[Citation.] We examine that language in the context of the entire statutory framework to
discern its scope and purpose and to harmonize the various parts of the enactment.
[Citation.] ‘If the language is clear, courts must generally follow its plain meaning unless
a literal interpretation would result in absurd consequences the Legislature did not intend.
If the statutory language permits more than one reasonable interpretation, courts may
consider other aids, such as the statute’s purpose, legislative history, and public policy.’
[Citation.]” (Kaanaana v. Barrett Business Services, Inc. (2021) 11 Cal.5th 158, 168–
169.)




                                              7
       1.     “Electric Bicycle” (Vehicle Code Section 312.5)
       Section 312.5 defines an “electric bicycle” as “a bicycle equipped with fully
operable pedals and an electric motor that does not exceed 750 watts of power.”
(§ 312.5, subd. (a).) It sets forth three classes of electric bicycles, defined as follows:
       “(1) A ‘class 1 electric bicycle,’ or ‘low-speed pedal-assisted electric bicycle,’ is a
bicycle equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling,
that is not capable of exclusively propelling the bicycle, except as provided in paragraph
(4), that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per
hour, and that is not capable of providing assistance to reach speeds greater than 20 miles
per hour.
       “(2) A ‘class 2 electric bicycle,’ or ‘low-speed throttle-assisted electric
bicycle,’ is a bicycle equipped with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel
the bicycle, and that is not capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches
the speed of 20 miles per hour.
       “(3) A ‘class 3 electric bicycle,’ or ‘speed pedal-assisted electric bicycle,’ is a
bicycle equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is
pedaling, that is not capable of exclusively propelling the bicycle, except as
provided in paragraph (4), and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle
reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour, and equipped with a speedometer.”
(§ 312.5, subd. (a)(1)-(3).)
       Subdivision (a)(4) provides that “[a] class 1 or class 3 electric bicycle may have
start assistance or a walk mode that propels the electric bicycle on motor power alone, up
to a maximum speed of 3.7 miles per hour.” (§ 312.5, subd. (a)(4).)
       2.     “Motor Vehicle” (Vehicle Code Section 415)
       Section 415 defines a “motor vehicle” as “a vehicle that is self-propelled.” (§ 415,
subd. (a).) Section 670 defines a “vehicle” as “a device by which any person or property
may be propelled, moved or drawn upon a highway, excepting a device moved

                                               8
exclusively by human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.” (§ 670.)
At the hearing on this matter, Schwartz testified that the electric bicycle used by Beale
had pedals and a class 2 sticker. As a class 2 electric bicycle, it was capable of being
propelled “exclusively” by its motor. On the surface, this appears to qualify Beale’s
electric bicycle as a “motor vehicle.”
       3.     “Not a Motor Vehicle” (Vehicle Code Section 24016)
       Nevertheless, section 24016, which governs the requirements for electric bicycles,
states in relevant part: “A person operating an electric bicycle is not subject to the
provisions of this code relating to financial responsibility, driver’s licenses, registration,
and license plate requirements, and an electric bicycle is not a motor vehicle.” (§ 24016,
subd. (b), italics added.) Beale submits that the italicized language is clear and
unambiguous on its face. Even if this clause is not unambiguous on its face, it is clear
from the legislative history for section 24016 that the Legislature intended the clause to
apply to the Vehicle Code as a whole. (See Sen Comm. on Transportation, Analysis of
A.B. 1096 (2015-2016 Reg. Sess.), as amended June 15, 2015, pp. 3-4 [distinguishing
“electric bicycles” from “motorized bicycles”].) The legislative history emphasizes that
unlike mopeds or motorized bicycles, electric bicycles are “[l]ike bicycles” and should be
held “to the same regulations … as bicycles,” as specified in article 4 of division 11 of
the Vehicle Code (“Operation of Bicycles”). (Ibid.) Moreover, the clause is more
specific than the language of section 415 because it specifically addresses electric
bicycles—section 415 merely addresses motor vehicles generally. “Under well-
established principles of statutory interpretation, the more specific provision … takes
precedence over the more general one. [Citations.] To the extent a specific statute is
inconsistent with a general statute potentially covering the same subject matter, the
specific statute must be read as an exception to the more general statute. [Citations.]”
(Salazar v. Eastin (1995) 9 Cal.4th 836, 857.) Finally, section 24016 also takes



                                               9
precedence over section 415 as the later enactment. (See Collection Bureau of San Jose
v. Rumsey (2000) 24 Cal.4th 301, 310.)
       The DMV argues that the clause “and an electric bicycle is not a motor vehicle” is
limited by the specific carve-outs regarding financial responsibility, driver’s licenses,
registration, and license plates that are listed earlier in the same sentence, but it does not
adequately explain its interpretation. Though it is not clear from its opposition, the DMV
appears to be arguing that an electric bicycle “is not a motor vehicle” only in the context
of insurance, licensing, and registration requirements—it still may be a “motor vehicle”
in other contexts—but there is nothing in the plain language of the statute to support this
reading. Indeed, as Beale points out, the word “and” suggests that this phrase was
intended to be an independent clause. The DMV’s interpretation would make the clause
superfluous. The DMV’s position conflicts with the basic principle of statutory
interpretation that, “[w]here reasonably possible, we avoid statutory constructions that
render particular provisions superfluous or unnecessary.” (Dix v. Super. Ct. (1991) 53
Cal.3d 442, 459.)
       Moreover, even if we were to accept the DMV’s reading of section 24016 that an
electric bicycle “is not a motor vehicle” only for purposes of “provisions of this code
relating to financial responsibility, driver’s licenses, registration, and license plate
requirements,” we have been given no basis for concluding that section 13353 cannot fit
into one of these four enumerated categories. On its face, section 13353 presents as a
provision “relating to … driver’s licenses,” as it is contained in division 6 of the Vehicle
Code, which specifically pertains to driver’s licenses, and it sets forth various
circumstances under which a person’s “privilege to operate a motor vehicle” may be
suspended. As a result, even under the DMV’s narrower interpretation of section 24016,
there is still no support for the notion that an electric bicycle can be a “motor vehicle” for
purposes of section 13353.



                                               10
       4.      “Bicycle” (Vehicle Code Section 231)
       The conclusion that an electric bicycle is not a motor vehicle is reinforced by the
definition of “bicycle” in the Vehicle Code. Section 231 provides that “[a] bicycle is a
device upon which a person may ride, propelled exclusively by human power, except as
provided in Section 312.5, through a belt, chain, or gears, and having one or more
wheels.” (§ 231.) As noted above, the exception for section 312.5 refers to electric
bicycles. Indeed, section 231 itself states, in its final sentence: “An electric bicycle is a
bicycle.” (§ 231.) Read together with section 24016, it would be difficult to conceive of
a clearer statement regarding the classification of an electric bicycle as a “bicycle,” rather
than as a “motor vehicle.”
       The DMV cites People v. Jordan (1977) 75 Cal.App.3d Supp. 1, 13, in which the
court held that a moped was a “motor vehicle” because it was “equipped with a motor
and was capable of moving from place to place under its own power.” That case is
inapposite. A “moped” or “motorized bicycle” is expressly defined in Vehicle Code
section 406. The Jordan court’s discussion of mopeds has no bearing on electric
bicycles, which are separately defined under sections 312.5 and 24016. (See People v.
Hatt (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 321, 326 [“A case is not authority for a proposition not
considered. [Citation.]”].) As noted above, although Officer Corini’s report
characterized Beale’s bicycle as a “motorized” bicycle, the APS hearing officer
ultimately treated it as an electric bicycle, as did the trial court.
       While it may well be the case that electric bicycles in some ways resemble mopeds
more than they resemble non-electric bicycles, and that the use of electric bicycles
potentially raises greater public safety concerns than the use of non-electric bicycles, it is
not up to the court to disregard the current statutory scheme in favor of public policy
arguments from the DMV. Any policy argument “ ‘is best directed to the Legislature,
which can study the various policy and factual questions and decide what rules are best
for society. Our role here is to interpret the statute[s] [as they are written], not to

                                               11
establish policy. The latter role is for the Legislature.’ [Citation.]” (L.A. County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority v. Alameda Produce Market, LLC (2011) 52
Cal.4th 1100, 1112.)
D.     Application of the Vehicle Code License Suspension Provisions to Bicycles,
       Including Electric Bicycles
       The DMV goes on to argue that even if electric bicycles are not motor vehicles,
bicyclists are still subject to the same implied consent laws as motorists. Thus, they
should be subject to the same penalties as motorists for refusing to submit to a chemical
test. The DMV cites section 231, which states in relevant part: “A person riding a bicycle
is subject to the provisions of this code specified in Sections 21200 and 21200.5.”
(§ 231.) Section 312.5 also provides, in subdivision (b), that “[a] person riding an
electric bicycle, as defined in this section, is subject to Article 4 (commencing with
Section 21200) of Chapter 1 of Division 11.” (§ 312.5, subd. (b).) Section 21200 states,
in relevant part: “A person riding a bicycle or operating a pedicab upon a highway has all
the rights and is subject to all the provisions applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this
division, including, but not limited to, provisions concerning driving under the influence
of alcoholic beverages or drugs, and by Division 10 (commencing with Section 20000),
Section 27400, Division 16.7 (commencing with Section 39000), Division 17
(commencing with Section 40000.1), and Division 18 (commencing with Section 42000),
except those provisions which by their very nature can have no application.” (§ 21200,
subd. (a)(1).)
       The DMV emphasizes the foregoing language (that a person riding a bicycle “has
all the rights and is subject to all the provisions applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
this division, including, but not limited to, provisions concerning driving under the
influence of alcoholic beverages or drugs”), and it takes this to mean that the laws
pertaining to driver’s license suspensions apply equally to riders of bicycles and electric
bicycles. This ignores the structure of the Vehicle Code. When section 21200 refers to

                                              12
“provisions applicable … by this division,” that means the provisions of division 11
(“Rules of the Road”). But the provisions of the Vehicle Code that pertain to refusals
(section 23612) and administrative penalties for such refusals (section 13353) are
contained in two other divisions—division 11.5 (“Sentencing for Driving While Under
the Influence”) and division 6 (“Drivers’ Licenses”), respectively. Neither division 6 nor
division 11.5 is mentioned in section 21200, nor are sections 13353 and 23612.
Consequently, they are not necessarily made applicable to bicyclists by section 21200.
       Moreover, we note that section 13353 requires not only that an arresting officer
have “reasonable cause to believe” that a person was “driving a motor vehicle,” but also
that the officer have reasonable cause to believe that the person was doing so “in
violation of Section 23140, 23152, or 23153.” The DMV has not shown that any of these
three Vehicle Code sections are applicable to the charges against Beale. Section 23140
addresses persons under the age of 21, which is plainly not relevant here, while sections
23152 and 23153 provide that it is unlawful for a person to drive a vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or a drug.
       Section 21200.5 (which is not one of the enumerated provisions in section 13353)
is the statute that governs riding a bicycle under the influence of alcohol or drugs:
“Notwithstanding Section 21200, it is unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle upon a
highway while under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or any drug, or under the
combined influence of an alcoholic beverage and any drug. Any person arrested for a
violation of this section may request to have a chemical test made of the person’s blood,
breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the alcoholic or drug content of that
person’s blood pursuant to Section 23612, and, if so requested, the arresting officer shall
have the test performed. A conviction of a violation of this section shall be punished by a
fine of not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250). Violations of this section are




                                             13
subject to Section 13202.5.” (§ 21200.5.) 4 As noted above, the legislative history of
section 24016 indicates that the Legislature intended that electric bicycles be governed by
article 4 of division 11 of the Vehicle Code, which includes sections 21200 and 21200.5.
In contrast to the provisions applicable to the drivers of vehicles in sections 23152 and
23153, section 21200.5 limits the sentence for a violation of the code section to a
monetary fine, with no possibility of jail time. 5
       The DMV argues that the use of the phrase “[n]otwithstanding Section 21200” at
the beginning of section 21200.5 means that “all the rights and responsibilities for
bicyclists set forth in Section 21200 apply unless contradicted by Section 21200.5.”
Even if we accept this argument, it does not change our ultimate conclusion, because we
do not read section 21200 as incorporating the driver’s license suspension provisions of
section 13353, as section 21200 includes no reference to either section 13353 or section
23612. Nothing about the use of the term “notwithstanding” here signals that section
21200 should be read to do so. 6


       4 Section 13202.5 provides for the suspension of driving privileges for certain
violations involving controlled substances or alcohol, but only for individuals under the
age of 21.
       5 We note that in Velasquez v. Superior Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 1471, the
Court of Appeal denied a writ of prohibition after a rider of a non-electric bicycle was
charged with recklessly driving a “vehicle” under section 23103, following a collision
with and serious injury of a pedestrian. Because it was dealing with a traditional bicycle,
the court did not have occasion to review the statutes governing electric bicycles
(including section 24016) in interpreting “vehicle” (as opposed to “motor vehicle”).
Accordingly, we conclude that Velasquez does not compel us to construe “motor vehicle”
to include electric bicycles. Moreover, section 23103 is not one of the enumerated
statutes in section 13353. As a result, Velasquez does not alter our conclusion that
section 13353 is inapplicable to riders of electric bicycles.
       6 Generally, “[t]he term ‘notwithstanding’ signals the Legislature’s intent that a
statute apply without prevention or obstruction by the other referenced statute.
[Citation.]” (People v. Elder (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 123, 140.) More specifically, the
California Supreme Court has stated that the phrase “ ‘notwithstanding any other law,’ ”
when appended to a statute, means that law, “when applicable, takes the place of

                                              14
       The DMV correctly notes that the Legislature has established both criminal and
civil processes to address intoxicated driving, and that the existence of certain criminal
penalties does not necessarily affect which administrative provisions might be available.
(See Gikas v. Zolin (1993) 6 Cal.4th 841, 846 [“In addition to criminal sanctions, the
Legislature has established administrative procedures whereby the DMV may suspend a
person’s driver’s license for driving under the influence or with a specified blood-alcohol
level.”].) But the fact that an administrative process exists that can result in the
suspension of a driver’s license for a person driving a car under the influence of alcohol
or drugs does not necessarily mean that the same process would apply to suspend the
driver’s license of a bicyclist who is not required to have a license in the first place.
       The DMV argues that it makes sense to apply section 13353 to bicyclists because
the law was intended to reduce driving under the influence and a “bicyclist with a
driver’s license could easily transition from a bicycle to a car.” We are not persuaded by
this policy argument, as it is untethered to the statutory language.
       We conclude that the provisions of the Vehicle Code regarding the suspension of
driver’s licenses do not apply to bicyclists such as Beale and that his license therefore
should not have been suspended.
E.     Due Process
       As a separate basis for reversal, Beale argues, as he did in the trial court, that the
APS hearing violated his due process rights because the DMV combined the advocacy
and adjudicatory roles in a single APS hearing officer. Because we conclude that Beale’s
driver’s license was not subject to suspension as a matter of law, we do not need to reach
the due process issue.



whatever law would otherwise determine defendant’s sentence for the current offense.
The language thus eliminates potential conflicts between alternative sentencing
schemes.” (People v. Superior Court (Romero) (1996) 13 Cal.4th 497, 524.)


                                              15
                                   III.   DISPOSITION
       The judgment is reversed and the matter is remanded to the trial court with
directions to grant the petition for writ of mandate. Beale shall recover his costs on
appeal. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.278(a)(1).)




                                             16
                                                CHUNG, J.∗




WE CONCUR:




DANNER, ACTING P.J.




BROMBERG, J.




Beale v. Department of Motor Vehicles
H052612




∗
  Judge of the Santa Clara County Superior Court, assigned by the Chief Justice pursuant
to article VI, section 6 of the California Constitution.
Trial Court:                             Santa Clara
                                         Superior Court No.: 23CV418048


Trial Judge:                             The Honorable Mary E. Arand



Attorneys for Plaintiff and Appellant    Marsanne Weese
David Keith Beale:                       Rose Mishaan



Attorneys for Defendant and Respondent   Rob Bonta,
Department of Motor Vehicles:            Attorney General of California

                                         Chris A. Knudsen,
                                         Senior Assistant Attorney General

                                         Kelsey Linnett
                                         Supervising Deputy Attorney General

                                         Joel Kosh
                                         Deputy Attorney General




Beale v. Department of Motor Vehicles
H052612