# Megatel v. Mansfield

**Court:** Ca5

**Docket Number:** 25-11006

**Decision Date:** 2026-05-21

---

Case: 25-11006       Document: 70-1       Page: 1    Date Filed: 05/21/2026




        United States Court of Appeals
             for the Fifth Circuit                                 United States Court of Appeals
                                                                            Fifth Circuit
                              ____________                                FILED
                                                                      May 21, 2026
                                No. 25-11006
                              ____________                           Lyle W. Cayce
                                                                          Clerk
Megatel Homes, L.L.C.; Cipriani Island Laguna Azure,
L.L.C.,

                                                       Plaintiffs—Appellants,

                                    versus

City of Mansfield, Texas,

                                         Defendant—Appellee.
               ______________________________

               Appeal from the United States District Court
                   for the Northern District of Texas
                        USDC No. 3:24-CV-2295
               ______________________________

Before Haynes, Higginson, and Ho, Circuit Judges.
Stephen A. Higginson, Circuit Judge:
       It is ORDERED that the petition for panel rehearing is
GRANTED. The court’s prior panel opinion is WITHDRAWN, and the
following opinion is SUBSTITUTED.
       Megatel Homes, L.L.C., and Cipriani Island Azure, L.L.C. (together,
Megatel) sought to develop land outside the City of Mansfield, Texas
(Mansfield or the City). To do so, Megatel needed retail water utility services
from the Johnson County Special Utility District (JCSUD). But when
Megatel requested retail water services, JCSUD conveyed that it was not
 Case: 25-11006         Document: 70-1           Page: 2     Date Filed: 05/21/2026




                                      No. 25-11006


permitted to provide any without Mansfield’s permission. Years of
unsuccessful negotiations between Megatel and Mansfield ensued, resulting
in this litigation. Assessing Megatel’s Sherman Act claims and allegations of
state-law violations, the district court concluded that state-action immunity
prohibited Megatel’s antitrust claims and declined to exercise supplemental
jurisdiction. Because we conclude that the Texas Water Code does not
clearly articulate and affirmatively express a state policy permitting
Mansfield to act anticompetitively, and thus does not provide Mansfield with
immunity, we REVERSE and REMAND.
                                            I.
        Megatel owns approximately 517 acres of land—the Cipriani
Property—located to the southwest of Mansfield, in Johnson County, Texas.
The land sits outside of the City’s corporate boundaries but within its
extraterritorial jurisdiction. Megatel sought to develop the Cipriani Property
into a residential, mixed-use, and commercial development. To do so, it
needed water—essential not only to the property’s eventual habitability, but
also as a prerequisite for additional steps in the development process, such as
platting. Concomitantly, JCSUD has a certificate of convenience and
necessity (CCN) for the land on which the Cipriani property sits. JCSUD
must provide water services for developments in “all of its CCN territory,”
including the Cipriani Property. 1
        In 2009, JCSUD and Mansfield entered into an agreement focusing
on the sale and delivery of water in JCSUD’s CCN. In 2022, they amended
the agreement, adding a “Restriction on Area of Utility Service” provision
        _____________________
        1
          Mansfield represented to Megatel that it routinely provides water services to
developments within the City and “significant portions of its exterritorial jurisdiction.”
However, it “does not currently have a CCN that authorizes it to provide retail water
service to the Cipriani Development.”




                                            2
Case: 25-11006        Document: 70-1           Page: 3   Date Filed: 05/21/2026




                                  No. 25-11006


that prohibits JCSUD from “engag[ing] in retail or wholesale provision of
water within the boundaries of Mansfield’s [extraterritorial jurisdiction] . .
. unless it secures the prior written consent of Mansfield, which may be
withheld in Mansfield’s sole discretion.”
       So, when Megatel sought to obtain retail water utility services, it had
to deal with both JCSUD and Mansfield. When Megatel requested that
JCSUD provide it with water utility services, JCSUD informed Megatel that
it could not provide water services without Mansfield’s approval because of
its contractual obligations to the City.
       As Megatel details in its complaint, that process has been—and
continues to be—anything but easy. Mansfield confirmed that, if Megatel
wanted water for development, it would need to comply with Mansfield’s
requirements. As the City told Megatel, “[I]f you control the tap you kinda
control the world.” For two and a half years, Megatel alleges it undertook
“what ultimately proved to be fruitless negotiations with the City.”
Mansfield demanded that Megatel “consent to the annexation” of the
Cipriani Property, permitting city control and taxation. Mansfield also
required Megatel to pay “various and sundry development fees” without a
“logical relationship” to the provision of water. Megatel eventually agreed
to these terms, but “Mansfield refused to execute the proposed agreement”
they had drawn up. Megatel then sought the Texas Public Utility
Commission’s assistance in compelling JCSUD to provide retail water
service for the Cipriani Property.
       Megatel filed suit against Mansfield—not JCSUD—in September
2024, asserting violations of Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, 15
U.S.C. §§ 1, 2, as well as claims for tortious interference, fraud, and
negligent misrepresentation under state law. Megatel sought declaratory
relief and damages. Mansfield moved dismiss under Rules 12(b)(1) and




                                           3
Case: 25-11006        Document: 70-1        Page: 4   Date Filed: 05/21/2026




                                  No. 25-11006


12(b)(6), asserting that the litigation was not ripe, that the City was entitled
to state-action immunity, and that Megatel’s state-law claims were either
barred or not worthy of the district court’s supplemental jurisdiction.
       The magistrate judge recommended that the motion be granted in part
and denied in part. In his view, Megatel’s claims were ripe, but the City was
entitled to state-action immunity. The magistrate judge also recommended
that the district court decline supplemental jurisdiction over the remaining
state law claims.
       After considering objections from Megatel, the district court entered
an order accepting the magistrate judge’s findings and recommendations,
granting in part and denying in part Mansfield’s motion to dismiss. The
district court concluded that, even if Megatel’s Sherman Act claims were not
barred by state-action immunity, Megatel had failed to allege “viable claims
for relief under the Sherman Act against the City.” The district court
dismissed Megatel’s Sherman Act claims with prejudice and its state claims
without prejudice, declining to exercise supplemental jurisdiction. Megatel
timely appealed.
                                      II.
       We examine the district court’s dismissal on state-action immunity
grounds. The magistrate judge concluded that the Texas Water Code is a
“sufficient expression of Texas’s policy to displace federal antitrust law”
such that Mansfield was entitled to state-action immunity. On appeal,
Megatel asserts that Mansfield is not entitled to state-action immunity
because Texas has not granted the City a right to provide water services in
the area covering the Cipriani Property, “much less any right to veto or
restrict” JCSUD’s ability to do so.




                                       4
 Case: 25-11006           Document: 70-1        Page: 5     Date Filed: 05/21/2026




                                     No. 25-11006


                                           A.
        We review dismissal under Rule 12(b)(6) de novo. Jack v. Evonik Corp.,
79 F.4th 547, 561 (5th Cir. 2023). “To survive a motion to dismiss, the
plaintiff’s complaint must contain sufficient factual matter, accepted as true,
to state a claim to relief that is plausible on its face.” Id. (internal quotation
marks omitted) (quoting Ashcroft v. Iqbal, 556 U.S. 662, 678 (2009)). We
accept well-pleaded facts as true, construing them in the light most favorable
to the plaintiff. Id. 2
        There are three contexts in which state-action immunity may be
asserted: (1) where a state clearly exercises its sovereign powers, commonly
known as Parker immunity after the Supreme Court’s decision in Parker v.
Brown, 317 U.S. 341 (1943); (2) where a state agency or municipality acts
pursuant to a “clearly articulated and affirmatively expressed” state policy
to replace competition with regulation; and (3) where a private party or state
agency controlled by “participants of the market they regulate” meets the
clear-articulation test and is subject to “active supervision” by the
state. Quadvest, L.P. v. San Jacinto River Auth., 7 F.4th 337, 346 (5th Cir.
2021) (internal quotation marks and citations omitted). Since “states
regulate their economies in many ways not inconsistent with the antitrust
laws, state-action immunity is disfavored.” Id. (alteration adopted and
internal quotation marks omitted) (quoting FTC v. Ticor Title Ins. Co., 504
U.S. 621, 635–36 (1992)).
        Mansfield asserts the type of immunity in the second camp. Our
“inquiry involves two distinct questions: (1) Does state law authorize the

        _____________________
        2
          The parties dispute what materials we may consider on appeal. Because any
materials outside the complaint would not alter our analysis, we need not address whether
Megatel sufficiently referenced them.




                                           5
Case: 25-11006        Document: 70-1        Page: 6    Date Filed: 05/21/2026




                                  No. 25-11006


defendant to engage in the challenged conduct?; and (2) Did the state
authorize the challenged conduct with an intent to displace competition with
regulation or monopoly service?” Id. (quoting 1A Phillip E. Areeda &
Herbert Hovenkamp, Antitrust Law 140, ¶ 225 (4th ed. 2013),
and citing F.T.C. v. Phoebe Putney Health System, Inc., 568 U.S. 216, 228
(2013)). State authorization to monopolize is “generally interpreted by an
objective test that looks at the language of the statute; if other evidence is
needed, it can be gleaned from legislative histories or state judicial
decisions.” Surgical Care Ctr. of Hammond, L.C. v. Hosp. Serv. Dist. No. 1 of
Tangipahoa Par., 171 F.3d 231, 234 (5th Cir. 1999) (en banc) (quoting 1
Phillip E. Areeda & Herbert Hovenkamp, Antitrust Law,
¶ 222b (1997)).
       The burden is on a municipality to “demonstrate that [its]
anticompetitive activities were authorized by the state.” Town of Hallie v.
City of Eau Claire, 471 U.S. 34, 39 (1985); see also Acoustic Sys., Inc. v. Wenger
Corp., 207 F.3d 287, 294 (5th Cir. 2000) (describing the state-action doctrine
as “a defense against liability”). Put differently, to assert state-action
immunity, the “substate governmental entity must also show that it has been
delegated authority to act or regulate anticompetitively.” Phoebe Putney, 568
U.S. at 228.
                                       B.
       The Texas Water Code establishes a “comprehensive regulatory
system” to regulate “retail public utilities.” Tex. Water Code
§ 13.001(c). Its statement of legislative policy and purpose explicitly states
that “retail public utilities are by definition monopolies in the areas they
serve” and that the “normal forces of competition that operate to regulate
prices” are inconsistent with the “public interest” in the provision of water
services. Id. § 13.001(a)–(b).




                                        6
Case: 25-11006       Document: 70-1       Page: 7    Date Filed: 05/21/2026




                                 No. 25-11006


       It also authorizes the Texas Public Utility Commission to issue a CCN
“to a water utility, granting the utility the exclusive right to provide water
service in a designated geographic area.” Dobbin Plantersville Water Supply
Corp. v. Lake, 108 F.4th 320, 323 (5th Cir. 2024) (emphasis added) (citing
Tex. Water Code §§ 13.242, 13.244). “In exchange for that right, the
utility must agree to ‘render continuous and adequate service within the
area,’ and to ‘serve every consumer.’” Id. (quoting Tex. Water Code
§ 13.250(a)). Except in specific circumstances, which Mansfield does not
assert are applicable here, a utility may not “sell, assign, or lease” a
CCN. Tex. Water Code § 13.251; cf. id. § 13.255 (permitting
agreements between utilities and municipalities when a municipality
incorporates or annexes an area).
       The Texas Water Code thus conveys a clear intent to structure
monopolies, see Tex. Water Code § 13.001, but confers that authority
only to the utility granted a CCN by the state, via the Texas Public Utility
Commission, see id. §§ 13.242, 13.244. That authority, we have said, is
“exclusive.” Dobbin, 108 F.4th at 323.
                                     C.
       The district court concluded that Mansfield was entitled to state-
action immunity because the Texas Water Code conveyed a clear intent to
displace competition with monopoly. But the magistrate judge did not
examine whether Mansfield itself was the intended beneficiary of that
statutory authorization. That is, whether Mansfield—and not JCSUD—
“ha[s] been delegated” the authority to act anticompetitively. Phoebe Putney,
568 U.S. at 228.
       Mansfield has not demonstrated that Texas, through its water code,
grants the city—and not JCSUD—the authority to monopolize. The parties
agree that a CCN grants a water utility the “exclusive right” to provide water




                                      7
Case: 25-11006       Document: 70-1       Page: 8    Date Filed: 05/21/2026




                                 No. 25-11006


in a geographic area, Dobbin, 108 F.4th at 323, and that the Cipriani Property
is located within JCSUD’s CCN. And the parties do not dispute that “the
Texas Legislature clearly articulated in the Texas Water Code a state policy
to displace competition in the market for retail water services.” But the first
step of our clear-articulation analysis is whether state law authorizes the
defendant to engage in the challenged conduct. See Quadvest, 7 F.4th at 346.
       In Quadvest, for example, our court examined whether the San Jacinto
River Authority—a political subdivision created to “conserve, control, and
utilize the storm and flood waters of the San Jacinto River”—was entitled to
state-action immunity. See id. at 339–40. In assessing whether the River
Authority was entitled to immunity, we first asked whether its “Enabling
Statute authorized its entry into and enforcement of the challenged
provisions.” Id. at 347 (emphasis added). Similarly, in Federal Trade
Commission v. Phoebe Putney Health System, Inc., the Supreme Court
examined whether Georgia had conferred on local hospital authorities the
ability to acquire hospitals in a manner that substantially lessened
competition. See 569 U.S. at 219–20. There too, the Supreme Court’s
analysis began with an assessment of the state Hospital Authorities Law,
which permitted the creation of hospital authorities such as the defendant in
the case. See id.
       State-action immunity “attache[s] to the activities of local
governmental entities” only “if they are undertaken pursuant to a ‘clearly
articulated and affirmatively expressed’ state policy to displace
competition.” Phoebe Putney, 568 U.S. at 226 (quoting Cmty. Commc’ns Co.
v. Boulder, 45 U.S. 40, 52 (1982)). The Texas Water Code grants the state’s
Public Utility Commission the authority to vest utilities with the exclusive
right to provide water through a CCN. See Tex. Water Code §§ 13.242,
13.244. But the provision of law explicitly permitting monopolistic behavior




                                      8
Case: 25-11006        Document: 70-1         Page: 9   Date Filed: 05/21/2026




                                  No. 25-11006


in the area a CCN covers specifies that “retail utilities are by definition
monopolies in the areas they serve.” Id. § 13.001(b)(1) (emphasis added).
       Here, Texas granted a CCN for the area on which the Cipriani
Property sits to JCSUD. Texas law clearly articulates and affirmatively
expresses that JCSUD has the authority to use its powers anticompetitively.
It does not grant Mansfield the same power. So, although Mansfield has
demonstrated that Texas law evinces an intent to permit monopolies in water
utilities, it has not shown that, for the Cipriani Property, state law permits it
to act anticompetitively. Its failure to do so precludes the City from state-
action immunity’s benefit, at least at this early stage.
                                      III.
       In its petition for panel rehearing, Mansfield argues that, separate
from its determination on state-action immunity, the district court has
already concluded that Megatel’s Sherman Act claims do not survive the
Rule 12(b)(6) phase. Mansfield accordingly suggests that this court may
examine these claims on appeal. But the district court’s one-sentence
assessment of Megatel’s Sherman Act claims, providing only that, even if
Megatel’s Sherman Act claims were not barred, “Plaintiffs have not alleged
viable claims for relief under the Sherman Act,” does not provide this court
with a sound basis on which to examine those claims. We therefore think it is
best to remand this issue to the district court for further development and
explanation on this issue, rather than pass on it in the first instance. See
Copeland v. Wasserstein, Perella & Co., 278 F.3d 472, 485 (5th Cir. 2002)
(remanding for “fuller explication of the court’s ruling”).
                                      IV.
       Accordingly, we REVERSE the decision of the district court
granting state-action immunity to Mansfield and REMAND for




                                        9
Case: 25-11006      Document: 70-1        Page: 10   Date Filed: 05/21/2026




                               No. 25-11006


consideration of Megatel’s Sherman Act and state law claims consistent with
this opinion.




                                     10