# Jones-Timms v. Freedom

**Court:** Ca5

**Docket Number:** 25-11147

**Decision Date:** 2026-05-21

---

Case: 25-11147            Document: 33-1         Page: 1      Date Filed: 05/21/2026




           United States Court of Appeals
                for the Fifth Circuit                                        United States Court of Appeals
                                                                                      Fifth Circuit

                                   ____________                                     FILED
                                                                                May 21, 2026
                                     No. 25-11147                              Lyle W. Cayce
                                   ____________                                     Clerk

Caleb B. Jones-Timms,

                                                                  Plaintiff—Appellant,

                                          versus

Freedom Chevrolet Buick GMC,

                                             Defendant—Appellee.
                   ______________________________

                   Appeal from the United States District Court
                       for the Northern District of Texas
                            USDC No. 3:25-CV-1209
                   ______________________________

Before Stewart, Willett, and Wilson, Circuit Judges.
Per Curiam: *
       Caleb B. Jones-Timms seeks leave to proceed in forma pauperis (IFP)
on appeal from the dismissal of his civil action for lack of subject-matter
jurisdiction and alternatively for failure to state a claim under 28 U.S.C.
§ 1915(e)(2)(B)(ii), and the denial of his postjudgment motion. By moving to
proceed IFP, Jones-Timms is challenging the district court’s certification
that his appeal is not taken in good faith. See Baugh v. Taylor, 117 F.3d 197,

       _____________________
       *
           This opinion is not designated for publication. See 5th Cir. R. 47.5.
Case: 25-11147        Document: 33-1       Page: 2     Date Filed: 05/21/2026




                                  No. 25-11147


202 (5th Cir. 1997). Our inquiry into whether an appeal is taken in good faith
“is limited to whether the appeal involves legal points arguable on their
merits (and therefore not frivolous).” Howard v. King, 707 F.2d 215, 220 (5th
Cir. 1983) (internal quotation marks and citations omitted).
       Jones-Timms contends that the district court erred in determining
that he had not established subject-matter jurisdiction because he merely
invoked federal statutes without establishing a plausible foundation for the
claims. Because such claims were not “‘patently without merit,’” dismissal
for lack of subject-matter jurisdiction was erroneous. See Young v. Hosemann,
598 F.3d 184, 188 (5th Cir. 2010) (internal citation omitted). As Jones-
Timms has shown a nonfrivolous issue for appeal, and he has also shown that
he qualifies as a pauper, the motion to proceed IFP is GRANTED. See
Howard, 707 F.2d at 220; Carson v. Polley, 689 F.2d 562, 586 (5th Cir. 1982).
       To the extent Jones-Timms argues it was improper to dismiss his
complaint prior to service on the defendant, he fails to show error. See Wilson
v. Barrientos, 926 F.2d 480, 482 (5th Cir. 1991). However, when his pro se
brief is liberally construed, see Morrow v. F.B.I., 2 F.3d 642, 643 n.2 (5th Cir.
1993), Jones-Timms also raises the meritorious argument that the district
court erred by failing to consider his amended complaint before dismissing
for failure to state a claim. Because the defendant had not been served with
the original complaint, Jones-Timms was allowed to amend his complaint
once as a matter of course, and the amended complaint superseded the
original. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 15(a)(1)(A); King v. Dogan, 31 F.3d 344, 346
(5th Cir. 1994). Further, because the district court first determined that the
amended complaint failed to state a claim in its order denying Jones-Timms’s
post-judgment motion, he was effectively deprived of the opportunity to seek
leave to amend his complaint under the discretionary provisions of Rule
15(a)(2). See Smith v. EMC Corp., 393 F.3d 590, 595 (5th Cir. 2004).




                                       2
Case: 25-11147        Document: 33-1        Page: 3    Date Filed: 05/21/2026




                                  No. 25-11147


       In view of the foregoing, we VACATE the district court’s judgment
and REMAND to the district court for further proceedings, including
consideration in the first instance of whether Jones-Timms should be
permitted to further amend his complaint. See Lowe v. Ingalls Shipbuilding, A
Div. of Litton Sys., Inc., 723 F.2d 1173, 1190 (5th Cir. 1984).




                                        3