# Wilhoit v. Pickett CA2/5

**Court:** Calctapp

**Docket Number:** B345756

**Decision Date:** 2026-05-21

---

Filed 5/21/26 Wilhoit v. Pickett CA2/5
   NOT TO BE PUBLISHED IN THE OFFICIAL REPORTS

California Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions
not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). This opinion
has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115.


IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

                         SECOND APPELLATE DISTRICT

                                        DIVISION FIVE


ALLISON ELIZABETH                                                B345756
WILHOIT,
                                                                 (Los Angeles County
         Plaintiff and Respondent,                               Super. Ct. No.
                                                                 24VERO02030)
         v.

SARA PICKETT,

         Defendant and Appellant.


     APPEAL from an order of the Superior Court of Los
Angeles County, Laura Streimer, Judge Pro Tempore. Affirmed.
     Law Offices of Vincent W. Davis & Associates and Vincent
W. Davis for Defendant and Appellant.
     No appearance for Plaintiff and Respondent.
                     I.    INTRODUCTION

      Defendant Sara Pickett appeals from a civil harassment
restraining order issued under Code of Civil Procedure section1
527.6 (section 527.6) in favor of plaintiff Allison Wilhoit. She
contends plaintiff failed to meet her burden of proof. We affirm.



                    II.    BACKGROUND2


A.    Interactions Between the Parties

      In September 2024, plaintiff hired defendant as a personal
trainer.
      On the night of Friday, November 15, 2024, plaintiff and
defendant were celebrating defendant’s birthday with a couple of
other people, including defendant’s boyfriend Erick3. Near the
end of the night, defendant and Erick had an argument and Erick
left the bar alone. Plaintiff and defendant sat together in
defendant’s car for several hours. Defendant flew into a rage


1    Further statutory references are to the Code of Civil
Procedure.

2      Consistent with the applicable standard of review, we
recite the facts in the light most favorable to the ruling granting
the restraining order. (Parisi v. Mazzaferro (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th
1219, 1226 (Parisi), abrogated on another ground in
Conservatorship of O.B. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 989, 1010, fn. 7.)

3     The reporter’s transcript refers to the boyfriend as “Eric,”
but the exhibits reflect that his name is “Erick”.




                                 2
because she believed Erick was romantically interested in
plaintiff—whom he had met that evening—and that the two were
developing an attraction. Plaintiff reassured defendant
“hundreds of times” that nothing was going on between her and
Erick. Defendant took plaintiff’s phone from her and used it to
contact Erick. Defendant “tried calling him nonstop.” When
Erick eventually answered, defendant forced plaintiff to talk to
him, but their conversation just made defendant angrier.
       Defendant sped off with plaintiff in the passenger’s seat
and refused to tell plaintiff where they were going. Plaintiff was
“terrified” and “begg[ed] [defendant] to pull the car over.”
Defendant was “slamming on the steering wheel while she was
driving. She was screaming.” Defendant said she was going to
confront Erick. When they arrived at Erick’s house, defendant
was yelling and “slamming on the horn repetitively, which is then
when [Erick] came out of the house.” Defendant and Erick began
to argue, and then defendant “got out of the car to have a
physical altercation with [Erick] … [¶] … [¶] [but] he retreated
into the house before she reached him.”
       While defendant was at Erick’s front door, plaintiff “was
trying to figure out a way … to get out of the car without passing
directly by [defendant] because … [she] didn’t want to be in
harm’s way.” When defendant returned to the car, she told
plaintiff to go to the house and speak to Erick. Plaintiff rang
Erick’s doorbell and asked for help. Erick told plaintiff “there
was nothing he could do for [her]” and that defendant “goes
through episodes like these….” Plaintiff ran away from the house
and hid from defendant.
       In the subsequent hours on what was now Saturday
morning, November 16th, defendant repeatedly telephoned




                                3
plaintiff and sent her text messages that scared plaintiff. During
the next couple of days, defendant telephoned plaintiff between
20 and 30 times, but plaintiff did not answer the calls.
Defendant left plaintiff numerous text, audio, video, and
voicemail messages. Defendant’s messages to plaintiff included
the following statements: “Bitch, I don’t know who the fuck you
think you are … I’m fucking taking you down you fucking dumb
bitch you’re playing with fucking fire bitch fuck you you’re
fucking homewrecker you’re fucking slut. Fuck you fuck you
[plaintiff] better hope you never run into me. You dumb fucking
bitch. You’re fucking disgusting. You fucking whore.” “It
wouldn’t be that hard to knock your dumb ass out[.]” “I will
annihilate you[.]” “[Y]ou’re going down you fuck with the wrong
person[.]” “I’d start looking for a new job. I[’d] start looking for a
new place to live … [j]ust move the fuck out of LA bitch.” “I
swear to God you better pray to God you don’t run into me bitch I
will fuck you up.”
       Plaintiff and defendant lived less than a mile apart and
plaintiff felt that defendant had threatened her safety.


B.    Petition, Hearing, and Order

       On November 25, 2024, plaintiff filed a request for a civil
harassment restraining order, pursuant to section 527.6. The
trial court issued a temporary restraining order that same day.
       On March 11, 2025, the trial court conducted a hearing on
the restraining order request at which plaintiff and defendant
testified.
       Plaintiff described her interactions with defendant.
Defendant admitted that she sent text messages to plaintiff




                                  4
because she believed that plaintiff had been intimate with
defendant’s boyfriend. But, defendant claimed that she “didn’t
mean it that [she] was really going to, technically, hurt [plaintiff]
….” Defendant also claimed that she did not know where
plaintiff lived.
        Following testimony and the admission of exhibits, the trial
court found the following: “[Defendant] believed that [plaintiff]
had compromised her relationship with her boyfriend. And that
belief was followed up with persistent and really vulgar texting,
name calling that went on for several days, multiple phone calls,
undisputed. There were at least—I believe there were 20 calls
during that period of time, none of which—20 to 30 calls, none of
which [plaintiff] responded to. [¶] … [T]he verbose ranting that
followed for several days, the texts, the phone calls, the threats …
[i]t’s the kind of … conduct that would disturb the peace of any
reasonable person.” The court found plaintiff’s version of events
credible and concluded that she “had reasonable fear given the
threats, given the encounter in the car.”
        The trial court therefore granted the restraining order for a
period of two years, reasoning that plaintiff “met her burden by
clear and convincing evidence that she has been the victim of
persistent harassment at the hands of [defendant], who may have
felt—may have been justifiably upset in the moment, given what
she believed to be the circumstances, but that her conduct, in
response, was above and beyond and really pretty intimidating
and frightening.”
        Defendant timely appealed.




                                 5
                         III.   DISCUSSION

       Defendant argues the trial court abused its discretion when
it issued the protective order because (1) defendant had a
legitimate reason for her conduct; (2) defendant’s text messages
were constitutionally protected speech; and (3) plaintiff did not
meet her burden to show by clear and convincing evidence that
she was “meaningfully threaten[ed]” or harassed.


A.    Standard of Review

       When a defendant appeals from an order granting a civil
harassment restraining order, we review the trial court’s findings
for substantial evidence and the court’s ultimate ruling for abuse
of discretion. (Parisi, supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at p. 1226.) We
review de novo whether factual findings “are legally sufficient to
constitute civil harassment under section 527.6 ….” (E.G. v. M.L.
(2024) 105 Cal.App.5th 688, 699.)


B.    Legal Principles

      Section 527.6, subdivision (a)(1) provides that a “person
who has suffered harassment … may seek a temporary
restraining order and an order after hearing prohibiting
harassment as provided in this section.” Section 527.6,
subdivision (b)(3) defines “‘[h]arassment’” as “unlawful violence, a
credible threat of violence, or a knowing and willful course of
conduct directed at a specific person that seriously alarms,
annoys, or harasses the person, and that serves no legitimate
purpose. The course of conduct must be that which would cause a




                                  6
reasonable person to suffer substantial emotional distress, and
must actually cause substantial emotional distress to the
petitioner.”


C.    Analysis


      1.    Legitimate purpose

      Defendant contends that her conduct does not constitute
harassment because “the text messages had a legitimate
purpose.” According to defendant, she messaged plaintiff
“because she was [plaintiff]’s trainer; they had a valid contract
that [defendant] was trying to enforce; they were friends; and
[she] was venting to her friend.”
      We reject the contention that the messages had a
legitimate purpose due to the business relationship of the parties.
The record, which includes numerous text and audio messages
that included vulgarity and threats, had no legitimate business
purpose and instead were intended to alarm, annoy, and harass.
And, to the extent defendant suggests that “venting to her friend”
was a legitimate purpose for her threats of violence, she offers no
authority supporting that proposition.


      2.    First Amendment

      Defendant also contends the trial court violated her First
Amendment right of free speech by granting the restraining
order. As a general principle, “‘speech that constitutes
“harassment” within the meaning of section 527.6 is not
constitutionally protected, and the victim of the harassment may




                                 7
obtain injunctive relief.’” (E.G. v. M.L., supra, 105 Cal.App.5th at
p. 702.) Moreover, “not all speech is of equal First Amendment
importance. It is speech on ‘“matters of public concern”’ that is
‘at the heart of the First Amendment’s protection.’ [Citations.]”
(Dun & Bradstreet v. Greenmoss Builders (1985) 472 U.S. 749,
758–759, fn. omitted.) Here, defendant left messages for
plaintiff, a private party, and that speech involved matters of
purely private interest. (See, e.g., Brekke v. Wills (2005) 125
Cal.App.4th 1400, 1404, 1409 [rejecting defendant’s claim that an
injunction violated his First Amendment right of freedom of
speech, explaining that the speech involved there was purely
private].) Thus, the restraining order did not violate defendant’s
constitutional right to free speech.


      3.    Sufficiency of the evidence

       Finally, defendant maintains plaintiff did not show by clear
and convincing evidence that she was meaningfully threatened or
harassed “as evidenced by the fact that [plaintiff] did not file a
police report or ask [defendant] to stop texting her.” Defendant
offers no authority to support her suggestion that either of those
activities are requisite to a finding of harassment. The trial court
found plaintiff’s testimony credible and expressly found that
defendant’s conduct constituted persistent harassment that
disturbed plaintiff’s peace. That finding was supported by
substantial evidence, including (1) the nature of the defendant’s
conduct in the car which plaintiff testified “terrified” her;
(2) Erick’s statement to plaintiff that defendant “goes through
episodes like these”; and (3) the 69 pages of screenshots plaintiff
provided which documented defendant’s communications to




                                 8
plaintiff over the course of several days, communication which
the court characterized as “above and beyond and really pretty
intimidating and frightening.”
      Based on this record, we find no abuse of discretion.



                     IV.   DISPOSITION

      The civil harassment restraining order issued pursuant to
section 527.6 is affirmed. No costs are awarded on appeal.

   NOT TO BE PUBLISHED IN THE OFFICIAL REPORTS




                                         KIM (D.), J.




We concur:




             HOFFSTADT, P. J.




             MOOR, J.




                                9