# People v. Alexander CA2/6

**Court:** Calctapp

**Docket Number:** B347886

**Decision Date:** 2026-05-21

---

Filed 5/21/26 P. v. Alexander CA2/6
   NOT TO BE PUBLISHED IN THE OFFICIAL REPORTS
California Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions
not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). This opinion
has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115.


IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

                         SECOND APPELLATE DISTRICT

                                         DIVISION SIX


 THE PEOPLE,                                                 2d Crim. No. B347886
                                                           (Super. Ct. No. BA159821)
      Plaintiff and Respondent,                              (Los Angeles County)

 v.

 DARRION LARRY
 ALEXANDER,

      Defendant and Appellant.



      Darrion Larry Alexander appeals from the trial court’s
postjudgment order denying his motion to vacate judgment
pursuant to Penal Code section 1473.7.1 We appointed counsel to
represent appellant on appeal. After an examination of the
record, counsel filed an opening brief raising no issues and
requesting that we follow the procedures set forth in People v.
Delgadillo (2022) 14 Cal.5th 216 (Delgadillo). Appellant filed a
supplemental brief raising no arguable issues. We affirm.

         1   All further statutory references are to the Penal Code.
                        Procedural Background
       In 1998, appellant was convicted by jury of robbery (§ 211,
count 1) residential burglary (§ 459, count 3), and the unlawful
driving or taking of a vehicle (Veh. Code, § 10851, subd. (a), count
4). The jury found true the allegation that appellant personally
used a firearm in the commission of counts 1 and 3, and that a
principal was armed with a firearm in all three counts. (§§
12022.5, subd. (a), 12022, subd. (a)(1).) Appellant admitted a
prior serious felony conviction allegation. (§§ 1170.12, subds. (a)-
(d), 667, subds. (a)-(i).) The trial court sentenced appellant to a
total term of 28 years four months in state prison.
       In February 2025, appellant who is no longer in custody,
filed a motion to vacate judgment pursuant to section 1473.7,
subdivisions (a)(1) and (2) contending: Prejudicial error damaged
his ability to meaningfully understand or defend against the
charges, newly discovered evidence establishes that false/
misleading evidence was used to obtain his conviction, material
exculpatory evidence was withheld in violation of due process,
and the Department of Justice confirmed no valid warrant
existed for his July 3, 1996 arrest.
       In June 2025, after having “read and considered”
appellant’s motion and all the records and files in his case, the
trial court denied the motion.
                              Discussion
       Where, as here, appointed counsel finds no arguable issues
in an appeal that is not from the first appeal after conviction,
appellant is not entitled to our independent review of the record
pursuant to People v. Wende (1979) 25 Cal.3d 436, or its federal
constitutional counterpart, Anders v. California (1967) 386 U.S.
738. (Delgadillo, supra, 14 Cal.5th at p. 226.) He is, however,




                                 2
entitled to appellate consideration of any contentions raised in
his supplemental brief. (Id. at p. 232.)
       In his supplemental brief, appellant makes a number of
contentions challenging the trial court’s summary denial of his
motion to vacate judgment. His principle contention is that the
trial court’s “failure to conduct an evidentiary hearing requires
reversal.”
        But appellant’s contention improperly conflates the
principles for remand applicable to a reviewing court with the
statutory requirements for a hearing applicable to a court
considering his section 1473.7 motion in the first instance. (Id.,
subd. (d).) To be sure, appellant identifies nothing in the statute
or legislative history, evidencing a legislative intent to alter well-
established authority governing appellate review. Further, he
has not established prejudice.
       In a detailed written ruling, the trial court expressly stated
that it had “read and considered” the motion and all of the
“records and files” in his case. After having done so, the trial
court found that appellant failed to raise any claims relevant to
an inquiry pursuant to section 1473.7, subdivisions (a)(1) or
(a)(2). Instead, it concluded that the “instant motion is an
attempt to relitigate previously ruled upon claims under the
guise of an inapplicable statute.” Significantly, the trial court
found the claims raised in this case were repetitive, successive,
piecemeal, and time barred. (See In re Clark (1993) 5 Cal.4th
750, 767-768.) Accordingly, remand would be an idle act.
       Appellant’s remaining claims of prejudicial error related to
the trial court’s denial of his motion, including concerns of bias
under the Racial Justice Act, abuse of discretion, failure to




                                  3
“review judicial errors” or grant judicial notice of the evidence
presented, are without merit.
                             Disposition
      The order denying appellant’s section 1473.7 motion to
vacate is affirmed.
      NOT TO BE PUBLISHED.



                                      YEGAN, Acting P. J.
We concur:



             BALTODANO, J.



             CODY, J.




                                  4
                 Charlaine F. Olmedo, Judge
             Superior Court County of Los Angeles
               ______________________________

     A.William Bartz, Jr., under appointment by the Court of
Appeal, for Defendant and Appellant.
     No appearance for Respondent.