# Donaldson v. Ohio Dept. of Rehab. & Corr.

**Court:** Ohio Court of Claims

**Docket Number:** 2023-00371JD

**Decision Date:** 2024-06-18

**Citation:** 2024 Ohio 2784

---

[Cite as Donaldson v. Ohio Dept. of Rehab. & Corr., 2024-Ohio-2784.]




                              IN THE COURT OF CLAIMS OF OHIO


 ORA DONALDSON                                         Case No. 2023-00371JD

         Plaintiff                                     Judge Lisa L. Sadler
                                                       Magistrate Adam Z. Morris
         v.
                                                       DECISION
 OHIO DEPARTMENT OF
 REHABILITATION AND CORRECTION

         Defendant

        {¶1} On May 10, 2024, Defendant filed a Motion for Summary Judgment pursuant
to Civ.R. 56(C). On June 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an “Objection to Motion for Summary
Judgment,” which the Court construes as Plaintiff’s Response in Opposition to
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment (“Response”).1 On June 7, 2024, Defendant
filed its Reply in Support of its Motion for Summary Judgment. Defendant’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is now before the Court for a non-oral hearing pursuant to Civ.R. 56
and L.C.C.R. 4(D).          For the following reasons, Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is GRANTED.

Standard of Review
        {¶2} Motions for summary judgment are reviewed under the standard set forth in
Civ.R. 56(C):
        Summary judgment shall be rendered forthwith if the pleadings,
        depositions, answers to interrogatories, written admissions, affidavits,
        transcripts of evidence, and written stipulations of fact, if any, timely filed




        1 Plaintiff’s Response is two pages long with a third page included as a certificate of service.
                                                                                                     The
Court will refer to the page with the case caption as page one and page two with the numbered paragraphs
by their individual paragraph numbers.
Case No. 2023-00371JD                         -2-                                 DECISION


        in the action, show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and
        that the moving party is entitled to summary judgment as a matter of law.
        No evidence or stipulation may be considered except as stated in this rule.
        A summary judgment shall not be rendered unless it appears from the
        evidence or stipulation, and only from the evidence or stipulation, that
        reasonable minds can come to but one conclusion and that conclusion is
        adverse to the party against whom the motion for summary judgment is
        made, that party being entitled to have the evidence or stipulation construed
        most strongly in the party’s favor.
“[T]he moving party bears the initial responsibility of informing the trial court of the basis
for the motion, and identifying those portions of the record before the trial court which
demonstrate the absence of a genuine issue of material fact on a material element of the
nonmoving party’s claim.” Dresher v. Burt, 75 Ohio St. 3d 280, 292 (1996). To meet this
initial burden, the moving party must be able to point to evidentiary materials of the type
listed in Civ.R. 56(C). Id. at 292-293.
        {¶3} If the moving party meets its initial burden, the nonmoving party bears a
reciprocal burden outlined in Civ.R. 56(E):
        When a motion for summary judgment is made and supported as provided
        in this rule, an adverse party may not rest upon the mere allegations or
        denials of the party’s pleadings, but the party’s response, by affidavit or as
        otherwise provided in this rule, must set forth specific facts showing that
        there is a genuine issue for trial. If the party does not so respond, summary
        judgment, if appropriate, shall be entered against the party.

Facts
        {¶4} Defendant submitted the Affidavits from its employees, Corrections Specialist
Madeline Jackson and Corrections Officer Dustie Carner, with its Motion for Summary
Case No. 2023-00371JD                                -3-                                         DECISION


Judgment. However, upon review, Plaintiff did not submit any Civ.R. 56 evidence with
his Response. The relevant pleadings and evidence submitted, viewed in a light most
favorable to Plaintiff, show the following:
        {¶5} Plaintiff, an inmate in the custody and control of Defendant, was being held at
Defendant’s Correctional Receptions Center (CRC) “at the time of this incident April 29th
2022 at 11:58 A.M. this civil action lawsuit stems from a personal injury the plaintiff has
suffered and is suffering while the plaintiff was awaiting transfer to the plaintiff’s parent
institution.” (Complaint, Civil Action Complaint).2 Plaintiff alleges that he has suffered
since the April 29, 2022 incident “due to the improperly cared for and improperly
maintained, and broken prison issued equipment i.e. a prison issued bed frame, which
collapsed and has caused the plaintiff sever personal injury.” (Compl., Civil Action
Complaint). Plaintiff states that Defendant’s “staff were negligent and breached that duty
when the faulty improperly cared for and maintained bed frame that the plaintiff was laying
in collapsed.” (Compl., Statement of Facts). Moreover, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s
staff “is fully aware of these bed frames being faulty as the staff at the Ohio Corrections
Reception Center conduct routine cell shake downs and separate these bedframes by
breaking them apart as part of the cell shake downs sometimes as part of the inmates
punishment, while conducting these shake downs causing the pins that connect the bed
frame to the sleeping platform to become broken and missing which in turn cause a type
of pendulum effect that then caused the frame to collapse in on itself.” (Compl., Statement
of Facts).
        {¶6} Plaintiff states that “after this incident CRC staff put in a work order to have
maintenance fix the broken bedframe.” (Compl., Statement of Facts). Neither Plaintiff,




        2 Plaintiff’s Complaint is a combination of the Court’s “Claim Form” and attached typed “Civil Action

Complaint.” Because the Civil Action Complaint includes Plaintiff’s factual allegations, but does not include
page numbers, the Court will refer to it generally using Plaintiff’s bolded headings and direct citations where
possible.
Case No. 2023-00371JD                          -4-                               DECISION


nor another inmate, submitted any “kites, internal complaints, and grievances” regarding
concerns related to the bedframe nor did any “rounds of the unit nor searches of the cell
revealed any hazard, risk, or defect” in the bedframe prior to Plaintiff’s incident. (Jackson
Affidavit ¶¶ 5-13; Carner Affidavit ¶¶ 7-9).

Law and Analysis
       {¶7} Plaintiff states that the claims for which he seeks relief are “deliberate
indifference, willful and serious misconduct, careless indifference and disregard to life and
safety, gross negligence, willful and wanton negligence, culpable negligence, civil
recklessness, and breach of duty for failing to keep the Plaintiff in this action safe from
injury due to the improper maintenance, and care of prison issued equipment.” (Compl.,
Statement of Claim).
       {¶8} The Court notes that “‘willful, wanton, and reckless conduct is technically not
a separate cause of action, but a level of intent which negates certain defenses which
might be available in an ordinary negligence action.’” Griggy v. City of Cuyahoga Falls,
2006-Ohio-252, ¶ 8 (9th Dist.), quoting Cincinnati Ins. Co. v. Oancea, 2004-Ohio-4272, ¶
17 (6th Dist.). Moreover, “[t]he mere fact that claims in a complaint are couched in certain
legal terms is insufficient to confer jurisdiction upon a court. * * * Instead, in order to
resolve the issue of whether a court has subject-matter jurisdiction over a party’s claims,
the court must look beyond the language used in the complaint and examine the
underlying nature of the claims.” Guillory v. Ohio Dept. of Rehab. & Corr., 2008-Ohio-
2299, ¶ 11 (10th Dist.). Upon review, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s Complaint sounds in
ordinary negligence as he further states that “Defendants in this action breached their
duty to keep the Plaintiff safe from injury due to the faulty and improperly maintained and
cared for bed frame * * *.” (Compl., Statement of Claim).
       {¶9} “To recover on a negligence claim, a plaintiff must prove by a preponderance
of the evidence (1) that a defendant owed the plaintiff a duty, (2) that a defendant
breached that duty, and (3) that the breach of the duty proximately caused a plaintiff’s
injury.” Ford v. Ohio Dept. of Rehab. & Corr., 2006-Ohio-2531, ¶ 10 (10th Dist.).
       {¶10} “Typically under Ohio law, premises liability is dependent upon the injured
person’s status as an invitee, licensee, or a trespasser. * * * However, with respect to
Case No. 2023-00371JD                        -5-                                 DECISION


custodial relationships between the state and its inmates, the state has a duty to exercise
reasonable care to prevent prisoners in its custody from being injured by dangerous
conditions about which the state knows or should know.” Cordell v. Ohio Dept. of Rehab.
& Corr., 10th Dist. Franklin No. 08AP-749, 2009-Ohio-1555, ¶ 6.
       {¶11} “Although the state is not an insurer of the safety of its prisoners, once the
state becomes aware of a dangerous condition in the prison, it is required to take the
reasonable care necessary to make certain that the prisoner is not injured.” Barnett v.
Ohio Dept. of Rehab. & Corr., 2010-Ohio-4737, ¶ 23 (10th Dist.).
       {¶12} It is a plaintiff’s burden to show that defendant had notice of the condition of
the bed frame when it collapsed. See Powers v. Ohio Dept. of Rehab. & Corr., 2003-
Ohio-6566, ¶ 10 (10th Dist.), citing Presley v. Norwood, 36 Ohio St.2d 29, 31 (1973).
“Notice may be actual or constructive, the distinction being the manner in which the notice
is obtained rather than the amount of information obtained.” Watson v. Ohio Dept. of
Rehab. & Corr., 2012-Ohio-1017, ¶ 9 (10th Dist.). “Actual notice is notice obtained by
actual communication to a party.” Barnett at ¶ 23. “Constructive notice is that notice
which the law regards as sufficient to give notice and is regarded as a substitute for actual
notice.” Hughes v. Ohio Dept. of Rehab. & Corr., 2010-Ohio-4736, ¶ 14 (10th Dist.).
       {¶13} Defendant asserts that it is entitled to summary judgment because
“Defendant had no actual or constructive notice of any hazard or defect that rendered the
bedframe in [Plaintiff’s] cell unreasonably dangerous, [Defendant] did not have a duty to
protect him from that alleged risk. Accordingly, [Defendant] was not negligent as a matter
of law and summary judgment should be granted in [Defendant’s] favor.” (Defendant’s
Motion, p. 2). Defendant submitted Civ.R. 56(C) evidence in the form of Affidavits from
its employees, Corrections Specialist Madeline Jackson and Corrections Officer Dustie
Carner.
       {¶14} Jackson is employed by Defendant at CRC and her “job duties include,
among other things, overseeing the daily activities/operations of the housing unit within
the institution and supervising correctional staff. Pursuant to [her] duties, [she] worked
together with staff and other departments at the institution to be responsive to the
concerns of staff and the needs of incarcerated people.” (Jackson Aff. ¶ 3). Jackson is
“trained and familiar with [Defendant] policies, procedures, and practices related to safety
Case No. 2023-00371JD                         -6-                                   DECISION


and security of the institution.” (Jackson Aff. ¶ 4). Jackson avers that a “written record is
prepared and submitted to the maintenance department” if notice of a hazard or defect is
received and “[i]ncarcerated people may also submit kites, internal complaints, and
grievances to report and directly pursue any concerns regarding incarcerated people’s
health and safety.” (Jackson Aff. ¶¶ 5-6). Jackson further avers that she is “aware of all
kites, grievances, and work order which are completed in the CRC housing units.”
(Jackson Aff. ¶ 7). Plaintiff “never reported or raised any concerns regarding the bed
frame until after this incident.” (Jackson Aff. ¶¶ 9-10). Moreover, no other inmates
reported any potential safety issues with the bed frame before Plaintiff’s incident and
“[n]either rounds of the unit nor searches of the cell revealed any hazard, risk, or defect
in Plaintiff’s cell, specifically the bed frame, prior to the incident.” (Jackson Aff. ¶¶ 11-12).
       {¶15} Carner is employed by Defendant at CRC and is “trained and familiar with
[Defendant’s] policies, procedures, and practices related to facility safety, maintenance,
and inspection for housing units in the institution.” (Carner Aff. ¶¶ 2-3). Carner reported
to Plaintiff’s cell after the incident. (Carner Aff. ¶ 5).      Moreover, Carner avers that
“[Plaintiff] never reported or raised any concerns regarding the bed frame until after this
incident” and “[n]either [Plaintiff] nor any other incarcerated person personally notified me
that there was a potential safety issue or problem with the bed frame * * * before the April
29th incident.” (Carner Aff. ¶¶ 7-8).
       {¶16} Upon review, the Court finds that the Civ.R. 56(C) evidence submitted by
Defendant establishes that Defendant did not have actual or constructive notice of any
hazard or defect in the bed frame at issue prior to Plaintiff’s incident. Accordingly,
Defendant has met its initial burden as the moving party seeking summary judgment
pursuant to Civ.R. 56(C).
       {¶17} Plaintiff alleges that he “has requested discovery as, well as, public
information in regards to this action from the Defendants, and has yet to receive any
information requested * * *.” (Plaintiff’s Response, p. 1). To the extent Plaintiff alleges
that he has been unable to complete discovery, Plaintiff has failed to properly move for
and receive a continuance under Civ.R. 56(F). See Hernandez v. Ohio Dept. of Rehab.
& Corr., 2017-Ohio-8646, ¶ 17 (10th Dist.), citing Mootispaw v. Mohr, 2016-Ohio-1246, ¶
10 (10th Dist.); Commons at Royal Landing, LLC v. Whitehall, 2016-Ohio-362, ¶ 8 (10th
Case No. 2023-00371JD                               -7-                                       DECISION


Dist.) (“Civ.R. 56(F) provides the sole remedy for a party who must respond to a motion
for summary judgment before it has completed adequate discovery.”). Civ.R. 56(F) allows
a party to defer ruling on a motion for summary judgment to complete discovery, but a
court can grant summary judgment even if discovery remains incomplete in the absence
of a non-moving party moving for a Civ.R. 56(F) continuance. See Hernandez at ¶ 17,
citing Mootispaw at ¶ 10; Commons at Royal Landing at ¶¶ 9, 11.
        {¶18} Upon review of the docket, the Court notes that the discovery deadline in this
case was April 24, 2024, and neither party motioned to extend that deadline prior to
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment being filed.3 (See July 25, 2023 Order of the
Magistrate; see also June 7, 2024 Order of the Magistrate).
        {¶19} Plaintiff also alleges that he “has not been served with any arguments as to
why the motion for summary judgement was filed. The Plaintiff would like to have the
option to rebut any arguments the Defendant have made or would make.” (Plaintiff’s
Response, p. 1).        The Court does not find Plaintiff’s argument well-taken.                  Plaintiff
specifically points to Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment being filed in his
Response by stating: “Comes now Ora J Donalson Jr Pro Se Plaintiff on objection to the
Defendants motion for summary judgment filed in the Ohio Court of Claims May 10th
2024.” (Plaintiff’s Response, p. 1). Moreover, Plaintiff does not motion for an extension
of time to respond to Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment nor articulate to the
Court how he supports his position that he was not served. Defendant states that its
“motion for summary judgment was served upon Plaintiff and filed with the Court on May
10, 2024.” (Defendant’s Reply, p. 1).              Upon review, Plaintiff does not provide any
evidence or arguments to the contrary. Plaintiff somehow knew the date of Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment filing and instead makes substantive arguments opposing
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment. (Plaintiff’s Response, p. 1 (“The Plaintiff
objects to the Defendant’s motion for summary judgement for the following reasons[.] The

         3 “On May 24, 2024, Defendant filed a Notice of Service of Responses to Discovery Requests,

certifying that it served responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for production of documents with copies of
documents.” (Defendant’s Reply, p. 1). Moreover, on June 17, 2024, Plaintiff attempted to file more
discovery requests for production of documents pursuant to Civ.R. 34, which were returned to Plaintiff by
the Clerk pursuant to L.C.C.R. 4.2 and Civ.R. 5(D), and, as discussed, the discovery period had already
expired for this case without proper motion to extend the deadline. (See June 17, 2024 Letter to Plaintiff).
Case No. 2023-00371JD                          -8-                                   DECISION


arguments as to why the motion for summary judgement should be stricken are.”)).
Accordingly, the Court shall address Plaintiff’s substantive opposition in the numbered
paragraphs on page two of his Response.
          {¶20} As with any factual issue on summary judgment, “[i]f the opposing parties
present evidence on both sides of the issue, then summary judgment is inappropriate,
and a finder of fact must decide the issue.” Wright v. Ohio Dept. of Rehab. & Corr., 2014-
Ohio-4359, ¶ 11 (10th Dist.). However, upon review, Plaintiff has not submitted any
admissible Civ.R. 56 evidence to meet his reciprocal burden that Defendant had actual
or constructive notice of any hazard or defect in the bed frame at issue prior to Plaintiff’s
incident. Nor has Plaintiff explained how pleading willful, wanton, and reckless conduct
would negate such a defense. “When a motion for summary judgment is made and
supported as provided in Civ.R. 56, the nonmoving party may not rest on the mere
allegations of his pleading, but his response, by affidavit or as otherwise provided in Civ.R.
56, must set forth specific facts showing that there is a genuine triable issue.” State ex
rel. Zimmerman v. Tompkins, 75 Ohio St.3d 447, 449 (1996). Upon review, the Court
finds that Plaintiff’s response is conclusory in that Plaintiff essentially asserts that he is in
Defendant’s custody and, therefore, Defendant is liable for his injuries. (See Plaintiff’s
Response, ¶¶ 1-3; 6). As such, Plaintiff’s Response does not demonstrate the existence
of a genuine issue of material fact meeting the reciprocal burden pursuant to Civ.R. 56(E)
regarding Defendant’s notice. Accordingly, Defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.

Conclusion
          {¶21} Defendant has met its initial burden, pursuant to Civ.R. 56(C), by showing
that there are no genuine issues of material fact regarding prior notice of any hazard or
defect in the bed frame at issue. However, Plaintiff has not met his reciprocal burden,
pursuant to Civ.R. 56(E), setting forth specific facts showing that there is a genuine issue
for trial. Even construing the evidence in a light most favorable to Plaintiff, he has failed
to demonstrate the existence of a genuine issue of material fact related to Defendant
having actual or constructive notice of any hazard or defect in the bed frame at issue prior
to Plaintiff’s incident.
Case No. 2023-00371JD             -9-                          DECISION


     {¶22} For these reasons, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
GRANTED.




                                 LISA L. SADLER
                                 Judge
[Cite as Donaldson v. Ohio Dept. of Rehab. & Corr., 2024-Ohio-2784.]




 ORA DONALDSON                                         Case No. 2023-00371JD

         Plaintiff                                     Judge Lisa L. Sadler
                                                       Magistrate Adam Z. Morris
         v.
                                                       JUDGMENT ENTRY
 OHIO DEPARTMENT OF
 REHABILITATION AND CORRECTION

         Defendant



                                IN THE COURT OF CLAIMS OF OHIO




        {¶23} On June 17, 2024, a non-oral hearing was conducted in this case upon
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment. For the reasons set forth in the Decision
filed concurrently herewith, Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
Judgment is rendered in favor of Defendant.                  All previously scheduled events are
VACATED. Court costs are assessed against Plaintiff. The Clerk shall serve upon all
parties notice of this judgment and its date of entry upon the journal.




                                                   LISA L. SADLER
                                                   Judge


Filed June 18, 2024
Sent to S.C. Reporter 7/18/24
