# In re R.P. CA1/4

**Decision Date:** 2026-05-21

---

Filed 5/21/26 In re R.P. CA1/4
                NOT TO BE PUBLISHED IN OFFICIAL REPORTS
California Rules of Court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not
certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). This opinion has not been
certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115.




         IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

                                 FIRST APPELLATE DISTRICT

                                            DIVISION FOUR


 In re R.P. et al., Persons Coming
 Under the Juvenile Court Law.


 CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
 CHILDREN AND FAMILY
 SERVICES BUREAU,
                                                               A173938
          Plaintiff and Respondent,
 v.                                                            (Contra Costa County
                                                                Super. Ct. No. J2400106,
 K.L.,
                                                                J2400107)
          Defendant and Appellant.



         K.L. (mother) appeals an order terminating her parental rights to her
two young daughters, R.P. and A.P., and selecting adoption as the children’s
permanent plan under Welfare and Institutions Code section 366.26.1
Mother contends the trial court erred in applying the parental-benefit




         1 All statutory references are to the Welfare and Institutions Code.



                                                        1
exception.2 (§ 366.26, subd. (c)(1)(B)(i).) We find no error and affirm the
order terminating parental rights.
                                       I.
                                BACKGROUND3
A. Prior Dependency Proceedings
      1. First Dependency Case
      In 2017, the juvenile court asserted jurisdiction over parents’ two eldest
children, L.P. and K.P., born in 2015 and 2016. Eventually, parental rights
over the eldest two children were terminated in 2018 and the children were
adopted by a family in Idaho.
      2. Second Dependency Case
      Parents had a third child, R.P., who was born in 2019.
In January 2020, dependency jurisdiction was taken over R.P. due to parents’
substance abuse and mother’s mental health issues. Parents later regained
custody of R.P. and the case was dismissed in April 2021.
B. Current Dependency Proceeding
      1. Detention and Jurisdiction
      A.P. was born in late 2022. In February 2024, the Contra Costa County
Children and Family Services Bureau (bureau) filed a petition that, as later
amended at the jurisdiction hearing, alleged A.P. had been found
nonresponsive and not breathing, had received two doses of Narcan, and


      2 Andrew P. (father) does not separately appeal or otherwise join in

mother’s appeal. At times, we will collectively refer to mother and father as
“parents.”
      3 We take part of the background facts from parents’ writ petition

challenging the setting of the section 366.26 hearing. The writ petition,
which challenged the bypass of reunification services (§ 361.5, subd. (b)(15),
was denied by this court. (K.L. v. Superior Court (A171304, Dec. 18, 2024
[non. pub. opn.].)

                                       2
tested positive for fentanyl. A.P. was in the hospital. The bureau further
alleged that parents had previously failed to reunify and had their parental
rights terminated as to their two older children—L.P. and K.P. When asked
about the incident with A.P., mother said the child had choked on a pepper.
Mother did not know how fentanyl got into A.P.’s system.
      A.P. had a medical history of failure to thrive and fell in the 0.1 percent
and 0.3 percent for weight and head circumference. A.P. also had feeding
issues.
      The juvenile court sustained the bureau’s allegations that R.P. and A.P.
were at substantial risk of harm and ordered the children detained in
February 2024. The children were placed with a paternal great aunt in
March 2024.
      At the jurisdiction hearing in April 2024, parents pleaded no contest to
the counts regarding A.P.’s ingestion of fentanyl and the termination of
parental rights of the older siblings.
      2. Disposition
      The bureau’s May 2024 disposition report recommended that pursuant
to section 361.5 subdivisions (b)(10) and (11), services not be offered to
parents because they had not addressed the problems that led to the removal
of their two older children (L.P. and K.P.) and pursuant to section 361.5,
subdivision (b)(15) because parents had previously willfully abducted L.P.
and K.P. from their placement and refused to disclose the children’s location
or return them to their placement or the social worker.
      The juvenile court denied reunification services and set a hearing
pursuant to section 366.26. In reaching this determination, the court
indicated there was no doubt that parents loved the minors but found there
was an insufficient showing that parents had made reasonable efforts to



                                         3
address the issues that led to their first dependency case and that persisted
in this case. When father said he wanted to get a bonding study, the court
said it was not sure one was necessary because “everybody agrees there is a
bond between parents” and R.P. in particular.
      3. Supplemental Petition
      In October 2024, the bureau filed a supplemental petition seeking a
new placement for R.P. and A.P. because the paternal great-aunt was no
longer able to care for the children. Following a contested placement hearing,
the children were moved to a confidential resource family home.
      In December 2024, the bureau made an ex parte application to have the
children placed in Idaho with the family who had adopted the children’s older
siblings.
      4. January 2025 Section 366.26 Report
      In January 2025, the bureau submitted a section 366.26 report,
recommending termination of parental rights and adoption as the permanent
plan for R.P. and A.P.
      The report reflected that R.P. had been in therapy since September
2024; mother participated in the therapy until November 2024. A.P. was
then two years old and was in the process of catching up on vaccines after
mother refused them for two years. Due to A.P.’s feeding issues, her
gastroenterologist recommended medication to increase A.P.’s appetite, but
mother refused to allow the medication; A.P. continued to meet with a
feeding therapist. A.P. was developmentally delayed and received physical
therapy for a few months, and was treated by an infant development
specialist. A.P. was scheduled to begin speech therapy.
      Parents visited once or twice a week for a total of two hours.




                                       4
The majority of visits occurred with no incidents, however, there were several
in which R.P. would not follow parents’ instructions and would run around
the lobby or up the stairs, hit mother, throw toys, walk ahead of adults
outside, or would have a tantrum. R.P. also had strong reactions to the visits
ending. The social worker believed it was due to not having a strong healthy
bond with the parents.
      During the visits, A.P. played on her own and did not look to the
parents for help or attention. A.P. did not have any problem with the visits
ending and reached out to her caregiver to be held.
      The children had a strong sibling bond. The adoptive parents of the
older siblings were interested in having R.P. and A.P. placed with them.
      5. Addendum Report
      In a February 2025 addendum report, the bureau reported about
visitation since the section 366.26 report: three out of five visits occurred with
no notable incidents. On one visit, R.P. wanted a hamburger and threw
herself on the floor when mother told her she would bring healthier food next
time. R.P. cried when parents left. On another visit, R.P. took the tablet
after mother told her not to. R.P. told mother that she and father “weren’t
her family anymore.”
      R.P. did not listen to parents’ redirection when she jumped on the
couches and chairs. She screamed and had a tantrum when mother
threatened to delete an app on the tablet.
      The report indicated A.P. was too young to understand the concept of
permanency. She had no difficulty leaving after visits with the parents. R.P.
knew mother and father and enjoyed visits with them. The social worker
opined that the relationship between R.P. and the parents was not healthy.
R.P. had poor boundaries and did not follow parents’ directions. The bureau



                                        5
believed the children were adoptable and the adoptive parents of the older
siblings in Idaho were willing to adopt A.P. and R.P. The girls were reported
to have a significant sibling bond. The girls had been out of their parents’
care for eleven months.
      6. Mother’s Letter to the Juvenile Court
      Mother wrote a letter to the juvenile court in response to the bureau’s
January 2025 section 366.26 report. Mother requested that A.P. and R.P.
remain in long term foster care. Mother wanted to keep the relationship and
bond the parents had with the girls and be a part of their lives growing up.
Mother objected to the girls being placed out of state with the older siblings
because the older siblings were adopted before A.P. and R.P. were born and
there was no bond between them.
      Mother reported that all the visits she and father had with the girls
were loving and appropriate and that the bureau’s memorandum was biased,
disturbing and unethical. She described R.P. crying for mother at the end of
visits. She said R.P.’s therapist said mother’s presence during therapy was in
R.P.’s best interest, but the social worker would not allow mother to continue
attending the sessions. According to mother, R.P. told the therapist she
would be sad and scared if mother could not attend therapy. Mother reported
that R.P. told the therapist that mother made her feel happy and loved.
      Mother’s letter stated that the bureau’s report that the girls did not
have trouble saying goodbye was not true because the girls were distracted by
food and tricked into leaving before the parents could say goodbye. Mother
wrote that R.P. counted down the days between visits and wanted more
phone time with parents. Mother speculated that the bureau had a pre-
existing relationship with the adoptive parents in Idaho that made the




                                       6
bureau biased, or that the adoptive father used his influence as a retired
police officer to have the children placed in his home.
      7. Placement in Idaho
      Following a multi-day contested placement hearing, the juvenile court
followed the bureau’s recommendation for the children to be placed in Idaho
with the family who had adopted parents’ two older children.
      In a March 21, 2025 memorandum report, the bureau reported that
when R.P. learned she and A.P would be moving to Idaho with their older
siblings, she “screamed in excitement.” The bureau reported that on March
4, the potential adoptive parents flew to California and met R.P. and A.P.
The next day, both girls were happy and comfortable playing with the foster
parents before they left for the move to Idaho.
      The social worker spoke with R.P.’s therapist who said that R.P. had an
understanding that she would not be going back to her parents. R.P. called
the foster parents mom and dad or by their first names. R.P. told the foster
father she was going to miss her mom and dad. R.P. cried for a few minutes
twice in the prior week and said she missed and loved her mother. She also
cried one day before school and again said she missed her mom. In both
instances the foster mother comforted R.P. with hugs.
C. Section 366.26 Hearing
      The section 366.26 hearing took place over the course of several days,
during which the bureau filed additional memoranda regarding various
developments.
      1. Social Worker’s Testimony
      Social worker Stella Truong testified parents consistently visited R.P.
and A.P. both in person and in video calls. Parents were loving and
appropriate with the girls during visits. The girls were excited to see mother



                                       7
and father. The social worker noticed a positive bond between the children
and parents.
      The social worker considered whether not seeing the parents again
would have a detrimental effect on R.P. Her assessment was that there was
a parent/child bond, but she thought permanency was important for the girls.
She said it could have a detrimental effect on R.P., but she knew the family
would allow contact if R.P. or A.P. wanted it because the family allowed email
between the older siblings and parents.
      The social worker testified that during one video call, mother insisted
an older sibling be called by the name mother preferred, and that the people
who took the older siblings were now taking R.P and A.P. At the end of the
call R.P. was whimpering after mother said, “ ‘You know me. I raised you. I
did everything I could to get you back.’ ”
      Following a break in the social worker’s testimony, the bureau
requested authority to suspend visitation due to a call on March 24, 2025.
The court was “very disturbed” by the call’s transcript and by mother’s
behavior and statements. During the call, mother told R.P. that the
caregivers were not her parents and criticized the foster mother’s parenting
of one of the older siblings. Referring to the caregivers, mother said, “ ‘I’m
sad that these people did whatever they did to take you away . . . .’ ” The
court suspended further visitation but gave the social worker authority to
restart visits.
      When the social worker resumed her testimony, she stated that when a
scheduled visit had been cancelled, R.P. said, “oh, okay,” and did not cry or
ask when a visit would next occur. There were no reports that R.P. asked for
visits with mother or father since she was placed in Idaho. On two occasions,
in the first two or three weeks after the move, R.P. cried for a few minutes,



                                        8
indicating she missed her parents but after her feelings were acknowledged
she moved on and did not dwell on it.
      The social worker testified that R.P. began an April 4, 2025 video call
showing a toy to mother. Mother did not acknowledge the toy, but said, “I’ve
never been mean to you have I?” Later, R.P. told mother she was excited she
got a haircut and mother started to say, “what I’m upset about is that these
people . . . .” R.P. interrupted her and said, “I am still powerful Mom, please
don’t do this again. I don’t like this a lot. I don’t like it so much when you do
this. It makes me sad.” R.P. then started crying and hugged the caregiver
and did not want to let go of her. R.P. said she was sad and wanted love from
the caregiver. R.P. had no trouble ending the visit and stopped crying.
      The social worker testified it was very difficult for R.P. to build
relationships with other people because of her loyalty to the parents or due to
what mother said during video calls about the current caregivers. R.P. loved
her parents, but it made it difficult for her to settle and be in a stable
environment or integrate with a family because she was in “limbo.” It was
confusing for R.P. because mother was “telling her one thing and then, here []
she is with a family that she enjoys and just . . . thriving.”
      The bureau was concerned that mother did not acknowledge or
recognize R.P.’s feelings and that mother was not able to demonstrate that
she could empathize with R.P. The bureau recommended adoption over legal
guardianship because it was more beneficial for R.P. to be adopted given her
emotional and mental health and her efforts to integrate with the family.
The social worker reiterated that R.P. was in “limbo,” where she was trying
to figure out what was true given what parents have told her.




                                         9
      2. R.P.’s Former Therapist
      Marissa Anderson testified that she had conducted 20 therapy sessions
with R.P. Mother attended the first seven sessions. The therapist did not
observe any concerns in the interactions between mother and R.P. The
therapist said she could not determine bonding as it was out of her scope of
practice.
      During therapy, R.P. brought up her frequent placement changes and
expressed distress about the moves. The therapist reviewed the transcript of
a video call between the parents and children after the children had moved to
Idaho. The therapist was concerned because R.P.’s dysregulation was evident
and she was trying hard to have mother reconnect with her to show her
things, but mother was not focusing on those things. The therapist
recommended that future calls focus on R.P. and not parents.
      3. Visitation Supervisor
      Mailah Wayne, a social casework assistant for the bureau, supervised
visits between dependent children and their parents. She supervised visits
between parents and R.P and A.P. from January to March 2025. The former
visitation supervisor did not relay in the case notes any concerns about prior
visits. The visitation supervisor testified that both girls were extremely
comfortable with both parents. She did not observe R.P. having a tantrum or
getting upset more than an ordinary five or six year old. She said parents
managed her well if she got upset. Mother would talk to R.P. and R.P. would
come around.
      The visitation supervisor observed a positive, natural bond between the
children and their parents. Mother’s interactions with R.P. were engaged
and positive. She never saw mother do or say anything inappropriate.




                                      10
      During the last in-person visit before the children moved to Idaho,
parents and paternal grandparents celebrated R.P.’s birthday. They were
loving and doting on the girls and the girls were extremely comfortable and
familiar with them. R.P. cried during the middle of the visit, which caused
everyone else to cry. Mother did her best to console her. At the end of the
visit, it was not difficult for R.P. and A.P. to separate from their parents.
R.P. was not sad at the end of other visits and she did not cry.
      The visitation supervisor testified the paternal great-grandfather
approached her outside the courtroom and intimidated her by looking her up
and down and saying “unbelievable” to her.
      4. Paternal Great-Grandfather
      Paternal great-grandfather, Oscar M., testified that he observed
positive interactions between parents and the girls. He testified that the
visit supervisor cried during the last in-person visit and told him she wanted
to resign because of the “injustice” of this case. She said she could not handle
seeing how the children loved their parents so much and the agency was
unjust; the visit supervisor also said another person was resigning. He
testified the visit supervisor said the children had a very strong bond with
parents.
      Paternal great-grandfather testified that he never talked to the visit
supervisor on the day of the hearing, but he said it was “unbelievable” that
she wanted to testify. He denied directing the “unbelievable” comment to the
visit supervisor. Instead, he said he was directing the comment to mother.
      5. Additional Memoranda
      In a July 10, 2025 memorandum, the bureau reported about ongoing
visits and the new placement in Idaho. The social worker supervised 13




                                        11
video calls between parents and A.P. and R.P. from April to July.4 Overall,
there were no issues; however, mother would ask the girls if they had certain
things that mother had given them and would ask where the items were
located. On one occasion mother said she thought R.P. was “sad” and
pressured her for a response. When parents would tell the girls they loved
and missed them, R.P. would typically change the subject, although
occasionally she would say “me too,” or say she loved and/or missed them.
      When R.P. brought up the issue of A.P.’s overdose and drugs in the
home, instead of being transparent, parents told R.P. not to believe what
anyone told her and that they were not bad people. During two calls, parents
were very emotional and made accusations against the caregivers. According
to the foster mother, after the video calls, R.P. was “upside down” and
“amped up” for at least two days; she would not listen and would be highly
sensitive.
      The bureau reported that the girls were doing well, but R.P. had many
challenges, including not listening, pushing A.P., and not wanting to share
with A.P. R.P. lacked discipline and structure and constantly needed
redirection. R.P. wanted to make decisions and force people to do as she
wanted. R.P. said her parents told her she could do that.
      The bureau reported that R.P. had weekly therapy sessions with
Stephen Gibson. He reported that R.P. expressed strong desires to reunite
with mother and father. R.P. idealized her parents, especially mother. The
therapist said the weekly phone calls from mother were emotionally
dysregulating and afterward, R.P. demonstrated increased hyperactivity,
clinginess and emotional volatility.




      4 The bureau included transcripts of the video calls.



                                       12
      R.P. was presenting with attachment challenges, hyperactivity and
impulsivity. The therapist opined that R.P. resisted accepting or attaching to
the foster parents due to unresolved grief, loyalty conflicts, and “trauma
bonding” with her biological parents.
      In a July 24, 2025 memorandum, the bureau updated the court with
additional information from therapist Gibson. He told the bureau that R.P.
maintained a strong emotional connection with her parents, particularly
mother. However, he believed the attachment was “insecure or trauma-
based, rather than protective or secure.” He did not believe the attachment
was consistently positive or emotionally regulating. Therapist Gibson opined
that R.P.’s response after parental contact of emotional dysregulation,
clinginess, hyperactivity, and confusion suggested that ongoing interaction
with mother was destabilizing. He said R.P. would likely experience some
degree of grief and emotional distress if contact were reduced or terminated
but that it was not necessarily indicative of long-term harm. The ongoing
exposure to emotionally ambiguous and invalidating contact reinforced R.P.’s
entitlement-based beliefs, disrupted her ability to regulate her behavior and
undermined her adjustment to her prospective adoptive home.
      Therapist Gibson did not believe maintaining contact with R.P.’s
biological parents outweighed the importance of permanency and stability.
While R.P. may experience sadness, confusion, or behavioral regression, it did
not outweigh the long-term psychological benefits of being in a structured,
emotionally safe, and stable home environment.
      He opined that the current parental contact was contributing to
emotional instability and preventing her from fully investing in relationships
with her adoptive caregivers. He said continued confusion about roles,




                                        13
loyalty, and expectations was a barrier to healthy identity development and
emotional growth.
D. Juvenile Court’s Ruling
      The juvenile court found by clear and convincing evidence that the girls
were adoptable and that they would be adopted by the current caregivers.
The court explained that for the parental-bond exception to overcome the
legal preference for adoption, the following prongs must be satisfied: “That
there has been regular visitation and contact . . .; two, that there exists a
substantial positive relationship, the continuation of which would benefit the
children; and prong three, such that the termination of parental rights would
be detrimental to the child, weighing the detriment of severing the
relationship versus the benefits of adoption.”
      The court acknowledged that prong one of the parental exception was
met as the parents attended nearly every visit. The court found there was
insufficient evidence that A.P. had a bond that rose to the level to satisfy
prong two, that there was a substantial positive bond from child to parent,
the continuation of which would benefit the child. The court found R.P. was
“clearly bonded” to parents, especially to mother. However, there were
unhealthy attachment issues from the beginning of the case. While the court
agreed that there were “very positive aspects” to the video calls, and it was
abundantly clear how much parents loved the girls and how much R.P. loved
her parents, in almost every visit, R.P. appeared so “consistently anxious”
about her parents’ happiness that it was like she was “walking on eggshells.”
The court noted there is “a level of toxicity” that undermines parents’
arguments.
      The court quoted from the March 24 visit during which mother stated
she was sad that “ ‘these people did whatever they did to take you away,’ ”



                                       14
and R.P. asked mother to “ ‘turn yourself back to happy.’ ” Mother agreed to
turn herself “ ‘back to happy’ ” for R.P, while telling her that “ ‘[t]he people
you are living with are trying to cut off communication with me completely.’ ”
Mother added, “ ‘I will keep fighting for you.’ ” Then, a few moments later,
mother asked R.P. if she was “ ‘being treated nicely?’ ” When R.P. nodded
yes, mother said, “ ‘they are not treating you nicely?’ ” Mother continued to
imply the foster parents did not care about R.P. and said the foster parents
were “ ‘not good people.’ ” When R.P. told mother she was
“ ‘making me sad,’ ” mother replied, “I know . . . [b]ut . . . [o]ther people are
trying to make you not talk to me.’ ”
      The court found that parents continued to tell R.P. that she should not
trust the foster parents. The court stated that the parents were prioritizing
their possession and control of the children over the children’s need for
stability and safety. Nevertheless, the court emphasized: “I want to make it
clear that no one, least of all the Court, thinks that the parents are bad
people. That has come up a few times. Nobody thinks that mom and dad are
bad people. And I know that they love their children very, very much. They
are struggling with substance use issues and trauma that have been plaguing
them for some time, but it doesn’t mean that they don’t love their children.
But they still have not come to terms with the fact that it is not due to any
bias on the part of the authorities, or desperate grasp of the adoptive parents,
that they lost their children. It has been solely due to their significant
substance abuse issues.” The court could not find that the bond was positive
or that a continued relationship would have a benefit for the children.
Therefore, prong two did not weigh in parents’ favor.
      The court ruled that prong three weighed heavily against parents as
their actions undermined the stability of the girls’ placements and had a



                                        15
destabilizing impact on R.P. The court acknowledged, “[I]t will be
detrimental to [R.P.] to lose contact with her parents, and I think everybody
recognizes that, and that’s what makes this case so incredibly sad,” but “that
fact is outweighed by the benefits of stability and safety that R.P. will
experience through adoption.” The court stated, “I do not find that the harm
of severing the relationship between either of the girls outweighs the security
and sense of belonging that a new family could confer, especially a family
containing . . . two of their full biological siblings, who have been through
similar experiences.” The court terminated parental rights and this appeal
by mother followed.
                                        II.
                                 DISCUSSION
A. Applicable Law and Standard of Review
      The purpose of the section 366.26 hearing is to select a permanent plan
for the child after reunification efforts have failed. (§ 366.26, subd. (b); In re
Marilyn H. (1993) 5 Cal.4th 295, 304.) Adoption, where possible, is the
permanent plan preferred by the Legislature for a dependent minor child who
has not been returned to the custody of his or her parents and is found by the
court to be adoptable. (In re Autumn H. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 567, 573
(Autumn H.).) Only in “exceptional circumstances” may the court “choose an
option other than the norm, which remains adoption.” (In re Celine R. (2003)
31 Cal.4th 45, 53.) The parental-benefit exception under section 366.26,
subdivision (c)(1)(B)(i) is meant to recognize parent-child relationships that
“promote[ ] the well-being of the child to such a degree as to outweigh the
well-being the child would gain in a permanent home with new, adoptive
parents.” (Autumn H., supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at p. 575.) The exception “must




                                        16
be examined on a case-by-case basis,” considering the many variables that
may affect the parent-child bond. (Id. at pp. 575–576.)
      To satisfy the exception, “a parent must prove all three components of
the beneficial relationship exception,” and a “failure of proof on any one of
them is fatal.” (In re Katherine J. (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 303, 322, fn. 10.)
The parental-benefit exception requires a parent to establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that (1) “the parent has regularly visited with
the child,” taking into account the extent of visitation permitted; (2) “the
child has a substantial, positive, emotional attachment to the parent—the
kind of attachment implying that the child would benefit from continuing the
relationship”; and (3) “that terminating that attachment would be
detrimental to the child even when balanced against the countervailing
benefit of a new, adoptive home.” (In re Caden C. (2021) 11 Cal.5th 614, 629,
636 (Caden C.); § 366.26, subd. (c)(1)(B)(i); In re I.R. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
201, 212.) The first element asks whether there has been regular visitation.
“Regular visitation exists where the parents visit consistently and to the
extent permitted by court orders,” not merely that there have been parental
visits. (In re I.R., supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 212.) The second element
asks whether “the child would benefit from continuing the relationship.”
(§ 366.26, subd. (c)(1)(B)(i).) The relationship may be impacted by several
factors, such as the “age of the child, the portion of the child’s life spent in the
parent’s custody, the ‘positive’ or ‘negative’ effect of interaction between
parent and child, and the child’s particular needs.” (Autumn H., supra, 27
Cal.App.4th at p. 576.)
      We review the juvenile court’s findings on the first two elements for
substantial evidence, wherein this court will uphold the trial court’s
determinations if we find substantial evidence supporting the juvenile court’s



                                        17
finding, “ ‘even though substantial evidence to the contrary also exists and
the trial court might have reached a different result had it believed other
evidence.’ ” (Caden C., supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 640.)
      With respect to the third element, we review the factual determinations
underlying the juvenile court’s balancing for substantial evidence, e.g.,
“rang[ing] from the specific features of the child’s relationship with the
parent and the harm that would come from losing those specific features.”
(Caden C., supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 640.) However, the “ultimate decision” of
whether termination of parental rights would be detrimental to the child
requires the trial court to “engage in a delicate balancing” and exercise its
discretion. (Ibid.) The third element is thus properly reviewed under the
abuse of discretion standard, wherein the trial court’s decision will be
overturned only if the decision “ ‘ “ ‘exceeded the limits of legal discretion by
making an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd determination.’ ” ’ ” (Id.
at pp. 640–641.) This hybrid standard “embodies the principle that ‘[t]he
statutory scheme does not authorize a reviewing court to substitute its own
judgment as to what is in the child’s best interests for the trial court’s
determination in that regard, reached pursuant to the statutory scheme’s
comprehensive and controlling provisions.’ ” (Id. at p. 641.)
B. Analysis
      Mother argues that her parental rights should not have been
terminated because the juvenile court improperly analyzed the second and
third prongs of the parental-benefit exception. Alternatively, she contends
she satisfied all three of the prongs of the parental-benefit exception. We
disagree.
      Preliminarily, the record reflects the court carefully and thoughtfully
analyzed the second and third prongs of the parental-benefit exception.



                                        18
Mother’s dissatisfaction with the court’s ruling does not undermine the
court’s thorough analysis of the second and third prongs.
      Here, there is no dispute that R.P. and A.P. are adoptable and that the
foster family, who had adopted their two older siblings, intended to adopt
them. The record also establishes that mother maintained regular visitation
with R.P. and A.P. so as to satisfy the first requirement of the exception; the
first prong is not contested on appeal.
      The court found there was insufficient evidence that A.P. had a bond
that rose to the level to satisfy prong two, that there was a substantial
positive bond from child to parent, the continuation of which would benefit
the child. In contrast, the court found R.P. was clearly bonded to parents,
especially to mother. However, there were unhealthy attachment issues that
were evident from the beginning of the case. Substantial evidence supports
the juvenile court’s determination on the second prong, when considering
factors such as the portion of the child’s life spent in parental custody and the
child’s particular needs. (Autumn H., supra, 27 Cal.App.4th at p. 576.)
      As noted, the juvenile court found that mother’s relationship had a
negative impact in that R.P. was “consistently anxious” about mother’s
happiness. Also, the “level of toxicity” in the relationship caused R.P. to act
as if she were “walking on eggshells.” Indeed, therapist Gibson opined that
the attachment was “insecure or trauma based,” rather than being protective
or secure. Also, R.P.’s dysregulation, clinginess, hyperactivity, and confusion
following visits suggested that ongoing interaction with mother was
destabilizing. Gibson further opined that parental contact was contributing
to emotional instability and preventing R.P. from fully investing in
relationships with her prospective, adoptive caregivers. He noted that




                                          19
continued confusion about roles, loyalty, and expectations was a barrier to
R.P.’s healthy identity development and emotional growth.
      Mother cites evidence positively reflecting on her relationship with the
children. However, under the substantial evidence standard of review, the
court looks for substantial evidence supporting the juvenile court’s finding,
regardless of substantial evidence against it. (Caden C., supra, 11 Cal.5th at
p. 640.) There is substantial evidence supporting the juvenile court’s finding
the children would not benefit from a continued relationship with mother.
      Turning to the third prong, the juvenile court concluded, “I do not find
that the harm of severing the relationship between either of the girls
outweighs the security and sense of belonging that a new family could confer,
especially a family containing . . . two of their full biological siblings, who
have been through similar experiences.” This determination is supported by
social worker Truong’s testimony that the termination of parental rights and
adoption by the caregivers would be in the best interests of the children
because it would provide stability, the ability to integrate with the family and
remove the state of emotional limbo R.P. is in based on what parents
continue to tell her. (See In re A.L. (2022) 73 Cal.App.5th 1131, 1159 [a
juvenile court can rely on opinions of a social worker, who is an “expert
qualified to testify concerning risk assessment and permanent placement
issues,” when balancing the various factors relevant to the third prong of the
Caden C. test].)
      Additionally, therapist Gibson opined that maintaining parental
contact did not outweigh the importance of permanence and stability; these
long-term psychological benefits outweighed any sadness R.P. might
experience. Criticizing this opinion, mother argues that Gibson “cannot
predict” the future, and that his opinion that the benefits of permanency and



                                        20
stability outweighed continued parental contact was a “conclusion for the
court to make,” While no one can predict the future, therapist Gibson’s
opinion was not merely speculative but was informed by his training and
experience and his weekly sessions with R.P.
      The record further reflects that the children had been out of mother’s
care for more than one year of their young lives. In A.P.’s case, this meant
she had spent more than half her life out of mother’s care. And, while R.P.
had spent more time in mother’s care, she had spent nearly a year and a half
“walking on eggshells” so as not to upset mother at the expense of her need
for stability and permanence.
      Mother highlights evidence of the bond she had with R.P. and R.P.’s
“sadness” while being away from mother. However, the inevitable sadness
that follows when children are separated from their biological parents is
insufficient evidence that severance of the parental relationship would harm
R.P to such a degree so as to defeat the benefits of adoption. The record is
devoid of evidence regarding how the severance of that relationship would
harm R.P. As the court in Caden C., supra, 11 Cal.5th at page 636 explained,
it is the parent’s burden to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that
terminating the child’s beneficial attachment to her parent “would be
detrimental to the child even when balanced against the countervailing
benefit of a new, adoptive home.” Mother, however, did not testify at the
section 366.26 hearing or present any other testimony from expert witnesses,
service providers, family or friends to support a finding that termination of
her relationship with her daughters would be detrimental. Accordingly,
mother did not satisfy her burden.
      Notwithstanding mother’s efforts and obvious love for her children, the
bureau’s reports, the social worker’s testimony, and the opinion of R.P.’s



                                      21
treating therapist demonstrate that it was not arbitrary, capricious, or
patently absurd for the juvenile court to hold that any detrimental impact to
R.P. and A.P. from terminating mother’s parental rights would not outweigh
the benefits of permanent adoption.
      Given the witnesses’ testimony and the lengthy written record, we
reject mother’s contention that the juvenile court abused its discretion in
failing to apply the parental-benefit exception.
                                      III.
                               DISPOSITION
      The order terminating parental rights is affirmed.




                                       22
                                            _________________________
                                            Moorman, J.*


WE CONCUR:


_________________________
Brown, P. J.


_________________________
Streeter, J.




A173938/In re R.P. et al.




      * Judge of the Superior Court of California, County of Mendocino,

assigned by the Chief Justice pursuant to article VI, section 6 of the
California Constitution.

                                       23