# In re G.P.

**Court:** Ohioctapp

**Docket Number:** 115914

**Decision Date:** 2026-05-21

---

[Cite as In re G.P., 2026-Ohio-1874.]


                               COURT OF APPEALS OF OHIO

                              EIGHTH APPELLATE DISTRICT
                                 COUNTY OF CUYAHOGA


IN RE G.P., ET AL.                            :

Minor Children                                :                         No. 115914

[Appeal by Father]                            :


                                JOURNAL ENTRY AND OPINION

                 JUDGMENT: AFFIRMED
                 RELEASED AND JOURNALIZED: May 21, 2026


            Civil Appeal from the Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas
                                   Juvenile Division
                      Case Nos. AD-24912853 and AD-24912854


                                        Appearances:

                 Scott J. Friedman, for appellant.

                 Michael C. O’Malley, Cuyahoga County Prosecuting
                 Attorney, and Joseph C. Young, Assistant Prosecuting
                 Attorney, for appellee.


EILEEN A. GALLAGHER, J.:

                    Appellant-father M.P. (“Father”) appeals from the decision of the

Juvenile Division of Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas (“the Court”) that

terminated his parental rights and granted permanent custody of his children, G.P.

and J.P., to appellee, the Cuyahoga County Division of Children and Family Services

(“CCDCFS” or “the agency”). We affirm based on the reasons that follow.
      I.     Factual Background and Procedural History

               CCDCFS filed a complaint for neglect and dependency and sought

temporary custody of both children on July 23, 2024. The complaint was based

upon concerns about educational neglect of the children, Mother and Father’s

alleged use of illicit substances and untreated mental-health conditions. Both

children were committed to agency custody in August 2024. The initial complaint

was not resolved within the statutory time frame and a subsequent complaint was

filed on December 9, 2024.

               Upon filing the of the subsequent complaint, the agency was awarded

emergency custody and awarded temporary custody after a hearing on March 7,

2025. At the March hearing, the short-term service worker testified that Father had

tested positive for drug use, including cocaine. School records demonstrated that

both G.P. and J.P. were absent from school for over 100 days in the 2024-2025

school year. The family had a history with agency involvement. The children were

out of school from December 2023 until they were removed from Mother in June

2024. At that time, both had numerous special and educational needs that were not

being met.

               The concerns with Father were his ability to care for the children, his

substance use, his mental health and safe and stable housing. Father informed the

agency of his recent release from jail and his substance use. Father has multiple

criminal convictions including drug abuse, domestic violence and child

endangering.
               A child protection specialist testified that Mother’s whereabouts are

unknown. She said Father is unstable and his whereabouts were unknown until

approximately October or November 2024. The case plan was for reunification and

Father was to find stable housing, provide for the children’s basic needs, engage in

mental-health services and substance-use services. Father was engaged in

community medical treatment for methadone services and substance-use case

management. Yet, he continued to test positive for drugs beyond methadone on

multiple occasions, including both cocaine and marijuana.

               At a review hearing in July 2025 the agency filed a motion to modify

temporary custody to permanent custody. The matter proceeded to a hearing on

November 10, 2025 where Father was present, but Mother was not.

               At the time of this hearing, the children were eight and nine years old,

respectively. The concerns regarding Father’s reunification plan remained the same.

While he had made some efforts in terms of participation in medical services and

was consistently attending supervised visits with the children, he was living at

Harbor Lights due to a violation of his probation. Prior to that he was living in men’s

shelters. He did not have appropriate housing for the children and he had continued

to test positive for illicit drugs. With the assistance of the agency, Father had applied

to be on waitlists for various county housing but whether, or when, he would obtain

it was unknown.

               Both children had significant behavioral and educational needs. G.P.

had been diagnosed with cerebral palsy requiring ankle braces. She also has autism
and ADHD and was developmentally delayed in school but was catching up since

entering foster care. J.P. is also diagnosed with ADHD and autism and had more

significant and aggressive behavioral issues which required his education to be in a

self-contained classroom, with support.      Both children require occupational,

physical and speech therapies.

              The court appointed special advocate (“CASA”) and the guardian ad

litem (“GAL”) both noted that the children had positive interactions with Father and

there appears to be no dispute that Father loves them. Father did not have any

verified income but self-reported having applied for a job with Amazon.

              A few relatives were investigated for custody but none expressed a

willingness to be the caregiver for the children. The children continued to thrive in

the care of the foster parents. Neither child expressed their wishes or preferences

regarding custody. The GAL, the CASA and the specialist from the agency all

recommended permanent custody to the agency as being in the children’s best

interest.

              On November 14, 2025, the court committed the children to the

permanent custody of CCDCFS for purposes of adoption and terminated all parental

rights and responsibilities of Mother and Father. Father appealed and argues that

the court’s decision that terminated his parental rights was against the manifest

weight of the evidence.
       II.    Law and Analysis

                A juvenile court’s decision to grant permanent custody is reviewed

under a manifest-weight-of-the-evidence and/or sufficiency-of-the-evidence

standard. In re H.G., 2024-Ohio-3408, ¶ 13 (8th Dist.), citing In re Z.C., 2023-

Ohio-4703, ¶ 11.

                In his sole assignment of error, Father argues that the decision to

terminate his parental rights and grant permanent custody to the agency was against

manifest-weight-of-the-evidence.

       When reviewing for manifest weight, the appellate court must weigh
       the evidence and all reasonable inferences, consider the credibility of
       the witnesses, and determine whether, in resolving conflicts in the
       evidence, the finder of fact clearly lost its way and created such a
       manifest miscarriage of justice that the judgment must be reversed and
       a new trial ordered. [Eastley v. Volkman, 2012-Ohio-2179,] ¶ 20, 972
       N.E.2d 517. “In weighing the evidence, the court of appeals must
       always be mindful of the presumption in favor of the finder of
       fact.” Id. at ¶ 21. “The underlying rationale of giving deference to the
       findings of the trial court rests with the knowledge that the trial judge
       is best able to view the witnesses and observe their demeanor, gestures
       and voice inflections, and use these observations in weighing the
       credibility of the proffered testimony.” Seasons Coal Co., Inc. v.
       Cleveland, 10 Ohio St.3d 77, 80 N.E.2d, 10 Ohio B. 408, 461 N.E.2d
       1273 (1984). ‘“If the evidence is susceptible of more than one
       construction, the reviewing court is bound to give it that interpretation
       which is consistent with the verdict and judgment, most favorable to
       sustaining the verdict and judgment.’” Id. at fn. 3, quoting 5 Ohio
       Jurisprudence 3d, Appellate Review, Section 603, at 191-192 (1978).

In re Z.C. at ¶ 14.

                “Under R.C. 2151.414(B)(1), a juvenile court may grant permanent

custody of a child to the agency that moved for permanent custody if the court

determines, ‘by clear and convincing evidence, that it is in the best interest of the
child’ to do so and that one of five factors enumerated in R.C. 2151.414(B)(1)(a)

through (e) applies.” In re Z.C. at ¶ 7. “Clear and convincing evidence is ‘that

measure or degree of proof, which is more than a mere “preponderance of the

evidence” but not to the extent of such certainty required “beyond a reasonable

doubt” in criminal cases and, which will produce in the mind of the trier of facts a

firm belief or conviction as to the facts sought to be established.’” In re A.M., 2024-

Ohio-1168, ¶ 15 (8th Dist.), quoting In re Awkal, 95 Ohio App.3d 309, 315 (8th Dist.

1994), citing Lansdowne v. Beacon Journal Pub. Co., 32 Ohio St.3d 176 (1987).

      A. R.C. 2151.414(B)(1)(a)-(e) Factors

               The first step in the analysis of a permanent-custody appeal is

determining whether one of five factors enumerated in R.C. 2151.414(B)(1)(a)

through (e) apply. The court found that the children could not be placed with either

parent within a reasonable time or should not be placed with them pursuant to

subsection (a). This finding is supported by clear and convincing evidence in the

record and the trial court’s findings pursuant to R.C. 2151.414(E).

      B. R.C. 2151.414(E) Factors

               The court found that subsections (1), (4), (10), (14), (15) and (16) of

R.C. 2151.414(E) supported its finding that the children could not be placed with

either parent within a reasonable time or they should not be placed with them. The

findings are addressed in order below.

      (1) Following placement of the child outside the child’s home, and
      notwithstanding reasonable case planning and diligent efforts by the
      agency to assist the parents to remedy the problems that initially
      caused the child to be placed outside the home, the parent has failed
      continuously and repeatedly to substantially remedy the conditions
      causing the child to be placed outside the child’s home.

This finding is supported by clear and convincing evidence in the record, including,

but not limited to, Father’s inability to maintain sobriety or to secure appropriate

housing for the children throughout the entirety of the proceedings despite diligent

efforts by the agency to assist him. Further, Father had no income or verified

employment.

      (4) The parent has demonstrated a lack of commitment toward the
      child by failing to regularly support, visit, or communicate with the
      child when able to do so, or by other actions showing an unwillingness
      to provide an adequate permanent home for the child . . . .

               The court did acknowledge that Father consistently visited the

children and participated in substance-abuse treatment but had no means of

supporting the children financially and he continued to struggle with his housing

due to his outstanding warrants, a probation violation and his continued substance

use. The court cited the children’s significant special needs as a significant factor in

its decision and noted Father had not completed any parenting class or learned how

to meet the special needs of the children. This finding is supported by the record.

      (10) The parent has abandoned the child.

               Father does not dispute the court’s finding that Mother had

abandoned the children.

      (14) The parent for any reason is unwilling to provide food, clothing,
      shelter, and other basic necessities for the child or to prevent the child
      from suffering physical, emotional, or sexual abuse or physical,
      emotional, or mental neglect.
              The reasons that support the fourth factor also support this finding.

      (15) The parent has committed abuse as described in
      section 2151.031 of the Revised Code against the child or caused or
      allowed the child to suffer neglect as described in section 2151.03 of
      the Revised Code, and the court determines that the seriousness,
      nature, or likelihood of recurrence of the abuse or neglect makes the
      child’s placement with the child’s parent a threat to the child’s safety.

              The court noted that Father had done nothing to address the

educational needs and medical neglect that the children experienced which led to

their removal. The witnesses testified that G.P.’s cerebral palsy was not known to the

agency until she was taken for medical care and it was learned that neither parent

had followed up to address this condition. After removal, G.P. had surgery and

received corrective braces. The other significant needs of the children that were

unaddressed by either parent have been previously detailed. This finding is

supported by clear and convincing evidence.

      (16) Any other factor the court considers relevant.

              The court found the children’s special needs were a significant factor

weighing in favor of its decision to grant permanent custody to the agency. This

finding is amply supported by the record with clear and convincing evidence.

      C. Best Interests

              The second step in the analysis is determining if permanent custody

is in the best interests of the child. The court reviews the R.C. 2151.414(D) factors

and is required to make findings under one of two alternative provisions as set forth
at subparagraphs (D)(1) and (D)(2) of the statute. Here, the court made findings

pursuant to R.C. 2151.414(D)(1).

               R.C. 2151.414(D)(1) requires that, when determining the best

interests of a child, the court shall consider all relevant factors, including, but not

limited to, the following:

      (a) The interaction and interrelationship of the child with the child’s
      parents, siblings, relatives, foster caregivers and out-of-home
      providers, and any other person who may significantly affect the child;

      (b) The wishes of the child, as expressed directly by the child or through
      the child’s guardian ad litem, with due regard for the maturity of the
      child;

      (c) The custodial history of the child, including whether the child has
      been in the temporary custody of one or more public children services
      agencies or private child placing agencies for twelve or more months of
      a consecutive twenty-two-month period, or the child has been in the
      temporary custody of one or more public children services agencies or
      private child placing agencies for twelve or more months of a
      consecutive twenty-two-month period and, as described in division
      (D)(1) of section 2151.413 of the Revised Code, the child was previously
      in the temporary custody of an equivalent agency in another State;

      (d) The child’s need for a legally secure permanent placement and
      whether that type of placement can be achieved without a grant of
      permanent custody to the agency;

      (e) Whether any of the factors in divisions (E)(7) to (11) of this section
      apply in relation to the parents and child.

               Although R.C. 2151.414(D)(1) required the court to consider all of the

factors, “only one of these enumerated factors needs to be resolved in favor of the

award of permanent custody.” In re S.C., 2015-Ohio-2410, ¶ 30 (8th Dist.), citing In
re Moore, 2000 Ohio App. LEXIS 3958 (8th Dist. Aug. 31, 2000), citing In re

Shaeffer Children, 85 Ohio App.3d 683 (3d Dist. 1993).

               In this case, the court found all the subsections weighed in favor of

permanent custody to the agency with subsections (d) weighing “very heavily” in

favor of permanent custody to the agency. These findings are supported by clear

and convincing evidence in the record.

               Father does not contest any of the findings directly or specifically.

Rather, he generally argues that his progress and cooperation with the case plan

should outweigh them. Father cites no authority to support this position. The best

interest inquiry is focused on the children’s best interest, not the parents. The court

did acknowledge Father’s efforts but detailed several reasons why it was nonetheless

awarding permanent custody to the agency in the best interest of the children.

               The children have remained in agency custody since August 2024 and

were placed with the same foster family. Despite this significant amount of time,

Father had made little progress on his case plan that would have enabled

reunification at any time in the foreseeable future. Both the CASA and the GAL

reported that the children are doing well, attending schools and their needs are

being met. Both CASA and GAL recommended permanent custody be granted to

the agency. The court’s decision to terminate Father’s parental rights and award

permanent custody to the agency is not against the manifest of the evidence.

               Father’s assignment of error is overruled and the court’s order is

affirmed.
      It is ordered that appellee recover from appellant costs herein taxed.

      The court finds there were reasonable grounds for this appeal.

      It is ordered that a special mandate issue out of this court directing the

common pleas court, juvenile division, to carry this judgment into execution.

      A certified copy of this entry shall constitute the mandate pursuant to Rule 27

of the Rules of Appellate Procedure.


________________________
EILEEN A. GALLAGHER, JUDGE

LISA B. FORBES, P.J., and
EMANUELLA D. GROVES, J., CONCUR