# Arocho-Rodriguez v. Roldan-Concepcion

**Court:** Ca1

**Docket Number:** 24-2041

**Decision Date:** 2026-05-21

---

United States Court of Appeals
                     For the First Circuit

No. 24-2041

                    JENSEN AROCHO-RODRÍGUEZ,

                      Plaintiff, Appellant,

                               v.

JULIO ROLDÁN CONCEPCIÓN, Mayor, Municipality of Aguadilla; RUBÉN
    NIEVES-ROLDÁN, Director, Office of Technologies; MAVIAEL
MORALES-NIEVES, Municipality Administrator; MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT
         OF AGUADILLA; JOHN DOE; JANE DOE; RICHARD ROE,

                     Defendants, Appellees,

          XAYMARA MESONERO, Director, Human Resources,

                           Defendant.


          APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
                FOR THE DISTRICT OF PUERTO RICO

        [Hon. Francisco A. Besosa, U.S. District Judge,
        Hon. Giselle López-Soler, U.S. Magistrate Judge]


                             Before

                 Gelpí, Thompson, and Rikelman,
                         Circuit Judges.


     Israel Roldán-González for appellant.
     Omar Andino-Figueroa, Solicitor General of Puerto Rico, Frank
A. Rosado Méndez, Deputy Solicitor General, and Mariola
Abreu-Acevedo, Assistant Solicitor General, for appellees Julio
Roldán    Concepción,    Rubén    Nieves-Roldán,    and    Maviael
Morales-Nieves.
     Carlos M. Hernández-López for appellee the Municipality of
Aguadilla.
May 21, 2026
           PER CURIAM. Plaintiff-Appellant Jensen Arocho-Rodríguez

sued   various    defendants   for,           among    other   claims,    political

discrimination      in   violation       of     the    First   Amendment.         When

some -- but   not    all -- of       the       defendants      moved    for   summary

judgment, the district court adopted a Report & Recommendation

("R&R"), granted the motion, and dismissed the entire case sua

sponte.   Arocho-Rodríguez appealed, and we now reverse.

                               I. BACKGROUND

           Arocho-Rodríguez        is    a     member     of   Puerto    Rico's    New

Progressive      Party   ("NPP")        and     a     former   System    Technician

Coordinator for the Municipality of Aguadilla. In January of 2021,

Aguadilla Mayor Julio Roldán Concepción, a member of the Popular

Democratic Party ("PDP"), took office.                  He appointed PDP members

Rubén Nieves-Roldán and Maviael Morales-Nieves to the positions of

Director of the Office of Technologies and City Administrator,

respectively.      Thereafter, Arocho-Rodríguez alleges that Mayor

Roldán and his appointees retracted Arocho-Rodríguez's server

access (rendering it impossible to complete his work), gave him a

poor employment evaluation, and created such a "humiliating" work

environment that he felt forced to resign, all because of his NPP

membership.

           Arocho-Rodríguez        then         sued     Defendant-Appellee        the

Municipality of Aguadilla, and individual Defendants-Appellees

Mayor Roldán, Nieves-Roldán, and Morales-Nieves in their official


                                        - 3 -
and individual capacities pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 1983. He brought

a political discrimination claim under the First Amendment, an

equal   protection    claim      under   the   Fourteenth    Amendment,      and

concomitant claims under Puerto Rico law.1

           After motion practice and discovery, the individual

Defendants-Appellees moved for summary judgment on the claims

against them in their individual capacities.             They asserted that

Arocho-Rodríguez     had   not    established    a   prima   facie   claim   of

political discrimination under the First Amendment.                  They also

asserted a qualified immunity defense.               They did not, however,

brief the equal protection, Puerto Rico law, or official capacity

claims.   The accompanying statement of facts cited to the Second

Amended Complaint and to Arocho-Rodríguez's deposition, and the

sole exhibit attached to the facts consisted of excerpts from said

deposition.   The individual Defendants-Appellees did not submit

any other evidence with their motion.            The Municipality did not

move for summary judgment.

           In response, Arocho-Rodríguez admitted all of the facts

save one (which does not impact this appeal), but he contended

that factual disputes rendered summary judgment inappropriate.                In

making that argument, he did not cite to his deposition testimony




     1 Arocho-Rodríguezalso brought a Fifth Amendment claim, which
was dismissed with his consent.


                                     - 4 -
directly, but he did cite to the individual Defendants-Appellees'

statement of facts, which, as just stated, cited his deposition.

            The district court referred the motion to a magistrate

judge for a R&R.      On July 2, 2024, the magistrate judge issued the

R&R and recommended that the district court grant the motion for

summary judgment.       The R&R first concluded that in opposing the

motion, Arocho-Rodríguez had "failed to develop any legal and

factual    argument    in   support    of     his   claim   under   the       First

Amendment," and that he "merely cited to case law without providing

any explanation or analysis of how these authorities support his

position or support a finding that there is a triable issue of

fact."     Then, citing our rule that "undeveloped arguments are

waived," the R&R concluded that summary judgment could be granted

on the ground of waiver "alone."               Nevertheless, the R&R also

concluded that Arocho-Rodríguez had failed to establish a prima

facie     political   discrimination        claim     because   "there    [were]

absolutely no facts" or "admissible evidence" that showed Mayor

Roldán    knew   of   Arocho-Rodríguez's        NPP    affiliation,      or    that

Nieves-Roldán and Morales-Nieves "participated in the employment

decisions at issue."        Given these findings, the R&R did not reach

qualified immunity.

            Arocho-Rodríguez filed objections to the R&R, asserting

many of the same arguments he advances on appeal, which we will

discuss below.    His objections, however, did not sway the district


                                      - 5 -
court. On October 8, 2024, the district court entered a memorandum

opinion     adopting     the     R&R     and        granting      the     individual

Defendants-Appellees' motion for summary judgment.                      The district

court thought Arocho-Rodríguez only supported his arguments with

"allegations    and    speculation."           It    thus   concluded:      "Because

Arocho-Rodríguez has failed to fully develop his arguments or cite

evidence to support his objections, the R&R properly recommended

that summary judgment be granted." The district court then entered

judgment and dismissed the entire case with prejudice.                      In doing

so, the district court did not address the Fourteenth Amendment

equal    protection    claim,    the    Puerto      Rico    law   claims,    or   the

municipal      liability         and      official           capacity        claims.

Arocho-Rodríguez timely appealed.

                                II. DISCUSSION2

            "We review a district court's grant or denial of summary

judgment de novo, examining the record in the light most favorable

to the nonmovant and drawing all reasonable inferences in that

party's favor."       Dusel v. Factory Mut. Ins., 52 F.4th 495, 502-03

(1st Cir. 2022) (citing Murray v. Kindred Nursing Ctrs. W. LLC,

789 F.3d 20, 25 (1st Cir. 2015)).              It is axiomatic that summary

judgment is only appropriate if the movant shows that "there is no




     2 The district court had jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. §§ 1331
and 1367, and we have appellate jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C.
§ 1291.


                                       - 6 -
genuine dispute as to any material fact" and that it "is entitled

to judgment as a matter of law."         Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(a).           "Facts

are material if they 'might affect the outcome of the suit under

the governing law.'"    Dusel, 52 F.4th at 503 (quoting Anderson v.

Liberty Lobby, Inc., 477 U.S. 242, 248 (1986)).

           In this appeal, Arocho-Rodríguez asserts three claims of

substantive   error.     As    a     preliminary    matter,    however,      the

individual Defendants-Appellees encourage us to affirm on waiver

grounds.   The R&R concluded that Arocho-Rodríguez waived his First

Amendment claim by "fail[ing] to develop any legal and factual

argument" when opposing the motion for summary judgment.                     The

district   court   adopted    this    conclusion,     and     the   individual

Defendants-Appellees vigorously defend it as an "independent and

dispositive ground for affirmance."

           True, Arocho-Rodríguez failed to flesh out his legal

arguments.    But his response in opposition was a far cry from the

type of "undeveloped" argument we deemed waived in the case cited

by the R&R.    See United States v. Zannino, 895 F.2d 1, 17 (1st

Cir. 1990) (rejecting the appellant's "cursory" attempt to adopt

his   co-defendants'    arguments        by   reference).           And     more

significantly, the district court had an independent duty "to

consider the motion on its merits, in light of the record as

constituted, in order to determine whether judgment would be

legally appropriate."    Aguiar-Carrasquillo v. Agosto-Alicea, 445


                                     - 7 -
F.3d 19, 25 (1st Cir. 2006) (quoting Mullen v. St. Paul Fire &

Marine Ins., 972 F.2d 446, 452 (1st Cir. 1992)).

            That   duty   arises   from    the   Federal    Rules    of   Civil

Procedure, under which, as stated above, a district court must

grant summary judgment if "there is no genuine dispute as to any

material fact and the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter

of law."    Fed. R. Civ. P. 56(a).         The corollary to this rule is

that if there is a genuine dispute of material fact, or if the

movant is not entitled to judgment as a matter of law, a district

court may not grant summary judgment.            That corollary holds true

even where a motion for summary judgment is unopposed.              See, e.g.,

Rivera-Aponte v. Gomez Bus Line, Inc., 62 F.4th 1, 8 (1st Cir.

2023) ("A court confronted with an unopposed summary judgment

motion is still required to test the undisputed facts in the

crucible of the applicable law in order to ascertain whether

summary judgment is warranted." (citation modified)).             The R&R, as

adopted by the district court, erred in concluding that the motion

for summary judgment could be granted based on waiver alone.

            But this conclusion does not end our waiver analysis,

because    the   individual   Defendants-Appellees         also   argue   that

Arocho-Rodríguez "double[d] down" on his alleged waiver by failing

to object to that part of the R&R, and then waived it again by

failing to raise it as an issue on appeal.            We take their point

and are puzzled by Arocho-Rodríguez's failure to challenge the


                                   - 8 -
R&R's waiver conclusion.            But given the initial oversight by the

district court, it does not make sense to enforce our usual

"raise-it-or-waive-it"            rule    based    on    an     entirely     erroneous

foundation.        See Sindi v. El-Moslimany, 896 F.3d 1, 28 (1st Cir.

2018) ("Since the application of the so-called raise-or-waive

principle is discretionary and non-jurisdictional, an appellate

court    may,      under    exceptional     circumstances,           elect   to     reach

unpreserved        issues    in   order    to     forestall      a   miscarriage      of

justice.").        Hence, we turn to Arocho-Rodríguez's three claims of

substantive error, addressing each seriatim.

             Arocho-Rodríguez first challenges the district court's

finding      that     Nieves-Roldán         and     Morales-Nieves           were     not

"involve[d]" in the "harassment and discrimination" that led to

Arocho-Rodríguez's "constructive discharge."

             Section 1983 provides a civil remedy for individuals

seeking redress for "the deprivation" of constitutional rights.

42 U.S.C. § 1983; see City of Okla. City v. Tuttle, 471 U.S. 808,

816 (1985).         "To state a claim under § 1983, a plaintiff must

allege the violation of a right secured by the Constitution and

laws    of   the    United    States,     and     must   show    that    the   alleged

deprivation was committed by a person acting under color of state

law."   West v. Atkins, 487 U.S. 42, 48 (1988); accord Pike v. Budd,

133 F.4th 74, 83 (1st Cir. 2025).                 Relevant here, defendants may

not be held liable under a theory of respondeat superior; rather,


                                          - 9 -
a plaintiff must show that "each Government-official defendant,

through the official's own individual actions, has violated the

Constitution."         Ashcroft v. Iqbal, 556 U.S. 662, 676 (2009).                   The

R&R   concluded        there    was    no    evidence    that     Nieves-Roldán       and

Morales-Nieves had any "active involvement" in the constructive

discharge of Arocho-Rodríguez, but we disagree.

              In his deposition, Arocho-Rodríguez stated that                         his

direct supervisor, Nieves-Roldán, (a) knew that Arocho-Rodríguez's

server access was cut off, (b) knew other employees were making

fun     of    him,     and     (c) was      present     when    Mayor     Roldán     gave

Arocho-Rodríguez a low performance evaluation and called him a

liar.        He further stated that when he complained about other

employees        who         were     taunting        him,     Nieves-Roldán         told

Arocho-Rodríguez: "Take your case to Yanitsia," the former NPP

mayor.       Morales-Nieves, meanwhile, delivered a "reprimand" for

"less than satisfactory" performance, and when Arocho-Rodríguez

said he did not agree with the warning, Morales-Nieves, "in a

taunting manner" and "humiliating way" also told Arocho-Rodríguez

to    "take     [his]         case    to     Yanitsia        Irizarry."          Finally,

Arocho-Rodríguez stated that Morales-Nieves scolded him for trying

to "fool" the mayor about his political affiliation.

              Thus, Arocho-Rodríguez's deposition testimony -- which

was     incorporated          into    the     individual       Defendants-Appellees'

statement      of    facts      and    is     not    contravened     by    any     record


                                            - 10 -
evidence -- is that both Nieves-Roldán and Morales-Nieves were

present     and/or     participated          in        the    harassment,       negative

performance reviews, and change in working conditions that drove

him to resign.       See, e.g., Martinez-Vélez v. Rey-Hernández, 506

F.3d 32, 43-44 (1st Cir. 2007).                    We thus reach a conclusion

different to that of the district court.

            Next, Arocho-Rodríguez challenges the district court's

finding    that     there   was   no     evidence            Mayor    Roldán    knew   of

Arocho-Rodríguez's affiliation with the NPP.                       To establish a First

Amendment political discrimination claim, a plaintiff must show

"(1) that the plaintiff and defendant have opposing political

affiliations, (2) that the defendant is aware of the plaintiff's

affiliation, (3) that an adverse employment action occurred, and

(4) that political affiliation was a substantial or motivating

factor for the adverse employment action."                            Méndez-Aponte v.

Bonilla, 645 F.3d 60, 64 (1st Cir. 2011) (quoting Ocasio-Hernández

v. Fortuño-Burset, 640 F.3d 1, 13 (1st Cir. 2011)).

            At the second step, the R&R concluded, and the district

court     agreed,    that   there      was        no    evidence       the     individual

Defendants-Appellees        had   any    knowledge            of     Arocho-Rodríguez's

affiliation with the NPP, only "allegations and speculation."                          The

individual Defendants-Appellees urge us to affirm this conclusion,

arguing that the "undisputed record confirms" Arocho-Rodríguez




                                       - 11 -
failed to establish a prima facie case of political discrimination.

We again disagree.

             In his deposition, Arocho-Rodríguez stated that Mayor

Roldán   instructed      Nieves-Roldán         to    remove          Arocho-Rodríguez's

server access "for participating [in] the ratifying assembly for

[the] former [NPP] mayor, Yanitsia Irizarry."                        He further stated

that Mayor Roldán, "in a taunting and humiliating manner," told

Arocho-Rodríguez        "of   course"     he     received        a    low    performance

evaluation because of his participation in that same assembly.

These assertions clearly impute knowledge of Arocho-Rodríguez's

NPP membership to Mayor Roldán, and they are not contradicted

anywhere     in   the    record.         Similarly,         as       discussed    above,

Arocho-Rodríguez         testified       that        both        Nieves-Roldán        and

Morales-Nieves knew of his NPP affiliation.                 Though the individual

Defendants-Appellees omitted most of this testimony from their

statement    of   facts,      that   does      not    vitiate          the   testimony's

preclusive impact on the motion for summary judgment.                         Therefore,

we   again   disagree     with    the    district      court's         finding   to   the

contrary.

             Finally, we consider Arocho-Rodríguez's third claim of

error: that the district court should not have dismissed the entire

case with prejudice.          He points out that the Municipality and the

individual Defendants-Appellees in their official capacities did

not move for summary judgment, and argues that since the judgment


                                        - 12 -
below was "premised on an erroneous reading of the record[,]"

dismissal of the case was error.3       Although the Municipality did

not move for summary judgment below, it proffers numerous arguments

in support of an affirmance, including an argument that there was

no evidence of a policy or custom of political discrimination, as

required to plead a § 1983 municipal liability claim.        See Monell

v. Dep't of Soc. Servs., 436 U.S. 658, 694 (1978).

            A district court has the power to enter summary judgment

sua sponte.   P.R. Elec. Power Auth. v. Action Refund, 515 F.3d 57,

64 (1st Cir. 2008), abrogated on other grounds as recognized by

Portugues-Santana v. Rekomdiv Int'l, 657 F.3d 56, 60-61 (1st Cir.

2011).   But "in an effort to limit the unfairness lurking in this

approach," we "require[] two conditions" before such action.        Id.

(citation   modified).    First,   discovery   "must   be   sufficiently

advanced that the parties have enjoyed a reasonable opportunity to

glean the material facts." Id. (quoting Sánchez v. Triple-S Mgmt.,

Corp., 492 F.3d 1, 7 (1st Cir. 2007)).    And "[s]econd, the district

court must provide 'the targeted party appropriate notice and a

chance to present its evidence on the essential elements of the



     3 In Arocho-Rodríguez's objections to the R&R below, he also
asserted that "it was premature . . . to address [the] political
discrimination claims under the . . . Fourteenth Amendment[],"
since the individual Defendants-Appellees "did not develop any
arguments for summary dismissal" of that claim.        He does not
reassert that argument on appeal, nor does he address the dismissal
of the Puerto Rico law claims.


                               - 13 -
claim or defense.'"       Id. at 64-65 (quoting Sánchez, 492 F.3d at

7).

          In this case, the first requirement was met because

discovery was complete. As to the second requirement, the district

court   did   not   give     Arocho-Rodríguez        notice -- formal    or

otherwise -- of its intent to dismiss the case entirely.                 See

Triumph Foods, LLC v. Campbell, 156 F.4th 29, 41 (1st Cir. 2025)

(noting that notice need not be "formal" or "explicit[]"), petition

for cert. filed, No. 25-1047 (U.S. Mar. 2, 2026).             This outcome

does not "necessarily" require reversal if it was harmless.             P.R.

Elec. Power Auth., 515 F.3d at 65.         But if the affected party was

"procedurally prejudiced," i.e., "unable to present evidence in

support of its position as a result of the unfair surprise," then

we must reverse.    Id.

          Procedural      prejudice   is   present    here.     While   the

Municipality devotes pages of its brief to the argument that

Arocho-Rodríguez cannot prove municipal liability, it failed to

move for summary judgment and advance these arguments in the

district court.     Similarly, the individual Defendants-Appellees

moved for summary judgment on the individual capacity claims, but

not on the official capacity claims.        And the R&R only recommended

dismissal of the First and Fifth Amendment claims against the

"individual capacity Defendants."          However, the district court

dismissed the entirety of the case without notice or explanation.


                                 - 14 -
(We can surmise that the dismissal was predicated on the findings

of waiver and lack of evidence, but as discussed above, these

findings cannot stand.)    Arocho-Rodríguez thus did not have an

opportunity to marshal his evidence and arguments with respect to

the municipal liability and official capacity claims.

                          III. CONCLUSION

         We reverse the judgment of the district court and remand

for further proceedings consistent with this opinion.




                              - 15 -