# State v. Foster

**Decision Date:** 2026-05-20

---

[Cite as State v. Foster, 2026-Ohio-1860.]


                               COURT OF APPEALS OF OHIO

                              EIGHTH APPELLATE DISTRICT
                                 COUNTY OF CUYAHOGA


STATE OF OHIO,                                     :

                 Plaintiff-Appellee,               :
                                                            No. 114642
                 v.                                :

MARCUS FOSTER,                                     :

                 Defendant-Appellant.              :


                                JOURNAL ENTRY AND OPINION

                 JUDGMENT: APPLICATION DENIED
                 RELEASED AND JOURNALIZED: May 20, 2026


                            Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas
                                  Case No. CR-24-692914-A
                                  Application for Reopening
                                      Motion No. 593545


                                             Appearances:

                 Michael C. O’Malley, Cuyahoga County Prosecuting
                 Attorney, and Michael R. Wajda, Assistant Prosecuting
                 Attorney, for appellee.

                 Marcus Foster, pro se.


EILEEN A. GALLAGHER, P.J.:

                Marcus Foster (“Foster”), pro se, has filed a timely application for

reopening his appeal pursuant to App.R. 26(B) and State v. Murnahan, 63 Ohio
St.3d 60 (1991), based on claims of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel. Foster

seeks to reopen the appeal in State v. Foster, 2025-Ohio-5626 (8th Dist.), in which

this court affirmed the trial court’s judgment, finding that his trial counsel was not

ineffective and the court did not err by denying his motions to suppress evidence.

For the reasons that follow, we deny Foster’s application to reopen the appeal.

I.   Standard of Review – Application to Reopen Appeal Based on Claim
     of Ineffective Assistance of Appellate Counsel

             Pursuant to App.R. 26(B)(5), this court shall grant an application to

reopen an appeal if a genuine issue exists as to whether the applicant was deprived

of the effective assistance of appellate counsel. To establish a claim of ineffective

assistance of appellate counsel, an applicant is required to show that the

performance of his appellate counsel was deficient, and the deficiency resulted in

prejudice. Strickland v. Washington, 466 U.S. 668 (1984); State v. Bradley, 42

Ohio St.3d 136 (1989). Put another way, “an applicant must show that (1) appellate

counsel’s performance was objectively unreasonable . . . and (2) there is ‘a

reasonable probability that, but for counsel’s unprofessional errors, the result of the

proceeding would have been different.’” State v. Leyh, 2022-Ohio-292, ¶ 18 quoting

Strickland at 694. “A reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine

confidence in the outcome.” Strickland at 694.

             The United States Supreme Court has held that “[j]udicial scrutiny of

counsel’s performance must be highly deferential. It is all too tempting for a

defendant to second-guess counsel’s assistance after conviction or adverse sentence,

and it is all too easy for a court, examining counsel’s defense after it has proved
unsuccessful, to conclude that a particular act or omission of counsel was

unreasonable.” Id. at 689. “Because of the difficulties inherent in making the

evaluation, a court must indulge a strong presumption that counsel’s conduct falls

within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance . . . .” Id.

                “App.R. 26(B) establishes a two-stage procedure to adjudicate claims of

ineffective assistance of appellate counsel.” Leyh at ¶ 19. At the first stage, an

applicant must make a “threshold showing” to obtain permission to file new

appellate briefs. Id. Pursuant to App.R. 26(B)(5), “[a]n application for reopening

shall be granted if there is a genuine issue as to whether the applicant was deprived

of the effective assistance of counsel on appeal.” If the applicant is successful, the

case moves to the second stage and is “treated as if it were an initial direct appeal,

with briefs and oral argument.” State v. Simpson, 2020-Ohio-6719, ¶ 13.

II. Analysis

          A. First Proposed Assignment of Error

                In his first proposed assignment of error, Foster argues that his

“appellate counsel was ineffective for failing to challenge the sufficiency and

manifest weight of the evidence.”        Upon review, we find that Foster has not

established colorable claims for ineffective assistance of appellate counsel regarding

these issues.

                A challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence supporting a conviction

requires a determination of whether the State has met its burden of production at

trial. State v. Hunter, 2006-Ohio-20, ¶ 41, citing State v. Thompkins, 78 Ohio St.3d
380, 390 (1997). Whether the evidence is legally sufficient to support a verdict is a

question of law. Thompkins at 386.

             “An appellate court’s function when reviewing the sufficiency of

evidence to support a criminal conviction is to examine the evidence admitted at

trial to determine whether such evidence, if believed, would convince a reasonable

juror of the defendant’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.” State v. Balinski, 2022-

Ohio-3227, ¶ 43 (8th Dist.). See also State v. Bankston, 2009-Ohio-754, ¶ 4 (10th

Dist.) (“[I]n a sufficiency of the evidence review, an appellate court does not engage

in a determination of witness credibility; rather, it essentially assumes the State’s

witnesses testified truthfully and determines if that testimony satisfies each element

of the crime.”).

             A manifest-weight-of-the-evidence challenge attacks the credibility of

the evidence presented and questions whether the State met its burden of

persuasion. State v. Whitsett, 2014-Ohio-4933, ¶ 26 (8th Dist.). Weight of the

evidence “addresses the evidence’s effect of inducing belief,” i.e., “whose evidence is

more persuasive — the state’s or the defendant’s?” State v. Wilson, 2007-Ohio-

2202, ¶ 25, citing Thompkins at 386-387. When considering an appellant’s claim

that a conviction is against the manifest weight of the evidence, the appellate court

functions as a “thirteenth juror” and may disagree “with the factfinder’s resolution

of . . . conflicting testimony.” Thompkins at 387, citing Tibbs v. Florida, 457 U.S. 31,

42 (1982). Furthermore, in State v. Jordan, 2023-Ohio-3800, ¶ 17, the Ohio

Supreme Court held that “[s]itting as the ‘thirteenth juror,’ the court of appeals
considers whether the evidence should be believed and may overturn a verdict if it

disagrees with the trier of fact’s conclusion.”

             Under this proposed assignment of error, Foster first argues that his

ankle monitor GPS did not place him at the scene of the crime. Evidence in the

record shows that Foster’s ankle monitor GPS placed him approximately one-half

block away from the crime scene at the time of the shooting. Foster next argues that

neither his, nor the victim’s, DNA was found in the Chevy Traverse at issue in this

case. DNA evidence is not required for a conviction, and one would not expect the

victim’s DNA to be found in the car involved in a drive-by shooting. Foster also

argues that there was no evidence of a “violation alert” for his ankle monitor in this

case. Foster is correct, but there is no allegation of an ankle monitor “violation alert”

in this case. Foster was charged, tried, and convicted of murder and associated

offenses. Whether his ankle monitor alerted is irrelevant to those charges.

              Upon review, we find that Foster failed to present a viable argument

that his appellate counsel was deficient and that he was prejudiced when his

appellate counsel failed to raise sufficiency and manifest weight of the evidence in

his direct appeal. Evidence in the record shows that the victim was killed in a drive-

by shooting, and a gray Chevy Traverse was seen by eyewitnesses, as well as recorded

by video cameras, leaving the scene of the crime at the time of the shooting. Through

video footage, the Traverse was found parked outside its owner’s house.

Approximately five hours after the shooting, Foster and a woman got into the
Traverse and drove away. Foster’s ankle monitor GPS placed him near the scene of

the crime at the time of the shooting.

               Courts have consistently held that “appellate counsel is not required to

raise and argue assignments of error that are meritless.” State v. Stewart, 2011-

Ohio-1667, ¶ 4 (8th Dist.) citing Jones v. Barnes, 463 U.S. 745, 754 (1983).

“Appellate counsel cannot be considered ineffective for failing to raise every

conceivable assignment of error on appeal.” Id.

               Accordingly, there is no colorable claim of ineffective assistance of

appellate counsel under App.R. 26 for failing to challenge the sufficiency and

manifest weight of the evidence.

          B. Second Proposed Assignment of Error

               In his second proposed assignment of error, Foster argues that his

“appellate counsel was ineffective for framing the GPS issue as trial counsel IAC,

causing this court to dismiss it procedurally without reaching the merits.”

Specifically, Foster argues that the “GPS issue had a second, independent viable

theory [trial counsel] never pursued: a direct challenge to admissibility as plain error

under Crim.R. 52(B), completely independent of trial counsel’s conduct.” According

to Foster, the State failed to satisfy Evid.R. 803(6)’s requirement that “business

records . . . be authenticated by a qualified custodian” and that “records be made at

or near the time of the event . . . .”

               Evid.R. 803(6) states, in part, that a “data compilation . . . of acts,

events, or conditions, made at or near the time . . . as shown by the testimony of the
custodian or other qualified witness” is admissible at trial. Additionally, Evid.R.

901(A) states, in part, that evidence is authenticated by “a finding that the matter in

question is what its proponent claims.”

              In this case, a representative from the Adult Parole Authority testified

about Foster’s GPS ankle monitor, which had been placed on him on June 16, 2023,

and transmitted his “position” at all times he was wearing it. The representative ran

“a report memorializing [Foster’s] location data for June 19, 2023,” which was the

day of the shooting in this case. This report was introduced at Foster’s trial and the

representative authenticated it, stating that it was “the GPS points for Marcus Foster

on the dates [sic] of June 19th from midnight to 10:00 a.m.” The report tracked

Foster’s location “minute-by-minute” and placed him one half of a block away from

the shooting at the time of the shooting.

              Thus, upon review, we cannot say that Foster’s appellate counsel was

ineffective for failing to challenge the admissibility of his ankle monitor GPS

information because this assignment of error would have been meritless.

          C. Third Proposed Assignment of Error

              In his third proposed assignment of error, Foster argues that his

“appellate counsel was ineffective for failing to argue that trial counsel’s conduct

constituted a complete denial of counsel under United States v. Cronic, which

presumes prejudice.”

              In this case, it is undisputed that Foster’s appellate counsel raised two

assignments of error in the direct appeal alleging that Foster’s trial counsel was
ineffective. Foster’s appellate counsel supported these arguments by citing the

following law: the Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution; McMann v.

Richardon, 397 U.S. 759 (1970); State v. Houston, 2019-Ohio-4787 (8th Dist.);

Strickland, 466 U.S. at 668; Bradley, 42 Ohio St.3d at 136; and State v. Lytle, 48

Ohio St.2d 391 (1976).

              However, in this application for reopening his appeal, Foster argues

that his appellate counsel should also have cited United States v. Cronic, 466 U.S.

648 (1984), which analyzes the following situation: “if counsel entirely fails to

subject the prosecution’s case to meaningful adversarial testing, then there has been

a denial of Sixth Amendment rights that makes the adversary process itself

presumptively unreliable. No specific showing of prejudice was required . . . .” Id.

at 659.

              This court was aware, of course, of Cronic prior to Foster’s direct

appeal, and if Cronic applied to his case, we would have cited it. But it did not and

we did not. Counsel’s failure to cite a particular case within an assignment of error

will not serve as a basis to reopen Foster’s appeal.

              Accordingly, Foster’s application for reopening is denied.


                                  ___
EILEEN A. GALLAGHER, PRESIDING JUDGE

LISA B. FORBES, J., and
EILEEN T. GALLAGHER, J., CONCUR