# Koleno v. Koleno

**Court:** Ohioctapp

**Docket Number:** 2026-A-0013

**Decision Date:** 2026-05-21

---

[Cite as Koleno v. Koleno, 2026-Ohio-1876.]


                   IN THE COURT OF APPEALS OF OHIO
                    ELEVENTH APPELLATE DISTRICT
                          ASHTABULA COUNTY

CHRISTINA KELLY KOLENO,                          CASE NO. 2026-A-0013

                 Plaintiff-Appellant,
                                                 Civil Appeal from the
        - vs -                                   Court of Common Pleas

WILLIAM T. KOLENO, II,
                                                 Trial Court No. 2024 DR 00475
                 Defendant-Appellee.


               MEMORANDUM OPINION AND JUDGMENT ENTRY

                                      Decided: May 21, 2026
                                    Judgment: Appeal dismissed


Dennis D. Decamillo, Decamillo Law, L.L.C., 1027 Lake Avenue, Ashtabula, OH 44004
(For Plaintiff-Appellant).

Malcolm Stewart Douglas, 113 North Chestnut Street, Jefferson, OH 44047 (For
Defendant-Appellee).


EUGENE A. LUCCI, J.

        {¶1}     On March 5, 2026, appellant, Christina Kelly Koleno, through counsel, filed

a notice of appeal from a February 26, 2026 judgment of the Ashtabula County Court of

Common Pleas.          In that entry, the trial court denied her motion to set aside the

magistrate’s order and denied her motion to stay.

        {¶2}     An appellate court may only consider appeals from final judgments or

orders. Noble v. Colwell, 44 Ohio St.3d 92, 96 (1989). Ohio Const., art. IV, § 3(B)(2)

provides that a trial court’s judgment can only be immediately reviewed by an appellate

court if it constitutes a “final order” in the action. Tamarac Apts., LLC v. Austin, 2025-
Ohio-2737, ¶ 4 (11th Dist.). If a lower court’s order is not final, an appellate court has no

jurisdiction to review the matter, and it must be dismissed. Id.

       {¶3}   A dismissal pursuant to Civ.R. 41(B)(3), “operates as an adjudication upon

the merits unless the court, in its order for dismissal, otherwise specifies.” Generally, a

dismissal without prejudice constitutes “an adjudication otherwise than on the merits” with

no res judicata bar to refiling the suit. Heart v. Ferron, 2021-Ohio-2184, ¶ 3 (11th Dist.).

This court has stated that a dismissal without prejudice leaves a party in the same position

the party would have been in prior to the action being filed. Id. Furthermore, a dismissal

without prejudice is not a final appealable order because a party may refile or amend a

complaint. Id.

       {¶4}   In the present matter, because the trial court’s dismissal was without

prejudice, appellant cannot now appeal. Since she may have the ability to refile her

complaint, the trial court’s dismissal without prejudice is not a final appealable order.

Accordingly, this appeal is hereby, sua sponte, dismissed for lack of jurisdiction.

       {¶5}   Appeal dismissed.



ROBERT J. PATTON, J.,

SCOTT LYNCH, J.,

concur.




                                        PAGE 2 OF 3

Case No. 2026-A-0013
                                JUDGMENT ENTRY



       For the reasons stated in the memorandum opinion of this court, this appeal is

hereby sua sponte dismissed for lack of jurisdiction.

       Costs to be taxed against appellant.




                                                JUDGE EUGENE A. LUCCI



                                              JUDGE ROBERT J. PATTON,
                                                      concurs



                                                 JUDGE SCOTT LYNCH,
                                                       concurs


           THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES A FINAL JUDGMENT ENTRY

    A certified copy of this opinion and judgment entry shall constitute the mandate
              pursuant to Rule 27 of the Ohio Rules of Appellate Procedure.




                                       PAGE 3 OF 3

Case No. 2026-A-0013